 
Interviewer: Okay. Recordings are on. Um,  
Interviewee: we're just gonna shot. I'm so sorry, . No, it's  
Interviewer: okay. I'm not really looking for, wanna take  
Interviewee: as many as you want? Um,  
Interviewer: I don't know. There's no like, big point to this yet. Okay. You know, it's just like a chat and I'm taking Inspira, like quotes and inspiration and like, pinging people's heads. 
Okay. Honestly, it's just like a selfish, I wanna hear, I like, love talking about this Uhhuh and I love hearing about people's lives and people's thoughts and, okay. I'm just gonna keep doing this maybe for the rest  
Interviewee: of my life, . Um,  
Interviewer: but yeah. Okay. Can I so ask you a couple of questions?  
Interviewee: Yeah. Please.  
Interviewer: What do you consider to be your cultural heritage? 
Interviewee: Our is to like, like the question? Mm-hmm. . Mm-hmm. . Yep.  
Interviewer: Or like you just say, like, where are you from? Where's your family from? We can start there if you want.  
Interviewee: Yeah. Yeah. Because the word heritage is weird for me. I don't use it. Mm-hmm. , it doesn't immediately ring a bell. Mm-hmm. . So I don't, it's hard for me to answer, um, say that I'd have to like, someone was like, where are you from? 
Or whatever. I guess my, my, I'm like, I'm Argentina. I grew up in Miami and I've lived in New York for 10 years. Mm-hmm. . So it's all three of those things. Okay.  
Interviewer: How about your parents or your like relatives?  
Interviewee: Everyone's from Argentina. Everyone's from Argentina until you get to like, you know, pre-World War whatever, and they're like Spanish and Italian, but that doesn't really matter. 
Interviewer: or it doesn't matter to you right  
Interviewee: now? Not really, but it does obviously influence my culture and like the way that I am mm-hmm. because, um, . The part of Argentina where I'm from is like, very much is like super Italian and it's like everything. Oh, okay. It's like the way that like South Italy is, is like what my part of Argentina is like, whoa. 
They're like super racist and super, it's religious and, and like the family, you know, like all that kind of shit. And it's like, it's like that. Hmm hmm. Yeah. So in valid, but I don't claim Italy, nothing. Sure.  
Interviewer: So you just, you draw the lines you can like  
Interviewee: see Yeah, of course. And it's inherent and our culture mm-hmm. 
To like, part of being Argentina, part of being a, partially being somewhat Italian or somewhat more, more than anything. Somewhat Italian, but for some Argentinian space, I'm a Polish or some like German. Mm-hmm. . But again, they're not like, it's not like in the US where I'm here, like I'm 25% German and 25% Irish. 
Like, we don't do that. We're just like, . Yeah. Um, I guess I'm whatever. Yeah.  
Interviewer: Hmm mm. So would you call yourself Argentinian? Mm-hmm. , Argentinian American. A like Argentinian. Argentinian. Yeah. Yeah. So, okay. Tell me about your relationship with being Argentinian.  
Interviewee: Um 
hmm. The fact that I even have a relationship to it is interesting, right? Because if you ask someone who is lives in Argentina's, always lives in Argentina, they don't have a relationship to it. It just is who they are, which I think is interesting. So, yeah, I, I guess I have to have a relationship to it. Um,  
Interviewer: I mean, I think that's arguable, right? 
I think even, even white Americans who, I mean, America's a weird one, right? Let's, let's, let's set it aside. I do think my relatives in China who have been Chinese do have a relationship with being Chinese. Oh yeah. Just from thinking about on a global scale. Not everybody  
Interviewee: is Chinese. Okay. Okay. Fair. And you know why? 
Also because maybe the answer that I'm giving you, that answer that I give you is like my view of how Argentina is, which is quite homogeneous. Hmm. So I think of Argentina, like France, or like Japan. Hmm. Does that make sense? It's like, I am French. We are French. You are French. Interesting. That is it. No more. 
You know, and it's like, you know what it means dok, you know, for some reason this is a Russian French person, but Sure. Um, and Argentina's kind of like that because, um, it has a very aggressive, dominant culture. , which is a lot of bad things. And I think maybe like in more modern type people who are more progressive in liberal, might have, might have, um, might have answers to this question that is like, Ooh, nice. 
Which is like, what is your relationship? Because um, I would say that for example, Argentina and Argentinas is very misogynist and very racist and very, um, um, uh, for example, it is very direct. Um, it's Catholic. It's um, uh, I don't know, there's like other softer things, but those are like pretty the harder things that people might fight against, you know? 
So there's like a whole brand of Argentina and feminism. Hmm. Which is a dominant brand of feminism in Latin America. Um, , you know, um, there's also, like now more recently summ Asian people in, in Argentina, which is wild. It's like crazy to consider that the Asian people in Argentina. And so there's some Korean and Chinese people were born there and they're like fully Korean, you know, they look Korean and they like speak out Latino in Spanish and it's like mind blown. 
So they probably are, are like having this kind of thing, right? It's like what does it mean to be both Korean? You what I mean? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um, I'm never that like affecting everyone else, right? Cause like you could choose to like, be like racist orine about it, which is like the old school way to be is like, you're an art entertainer cause you're Korean. 
Right? Right. It just, it just your classic racism. Mm-hmm. . Uh, so I guess in that sense, like, it's somewhat similar to my Americanness because. . I'm like a pretty progressive person. I'm, I'm, I'm, I'd say I'm a very progressive person in general, perhaps. Cause I've lived in New York for 10 years. Um, but also I have pretty traditional values, um, like, 
um, like family and whatever, and I'm straight. So maybe that affects, you know, , you know, good. I will raise Catholic, but I don't go by shit. But that's still sort of influences just the way that you do stuff, like Right. Um, sometimes I feel like I'm like still from a small town that I've only ever lived in a month at a time. 
Hmm. Um, where I'm like, if I promise you something, I will deliver you on this promise in three months. Hmm. Like, I don't flip flop, you know, which feels very small town. .  
Interviewer: Interesting. Like that, that feels anti, anti New York. Mm-hmm. , huh?  
Interviewee: People are always like, well, no, I can't promise nothing. Huh. You know? Um, yeah. 
I, I, I guess I believe in like, morals said, fastness and ethical said fastness and less, it's like your character should be quite consistent. Does  
Interviewer: it feel like it's tied to like, Argentina to being in a small town, to like having moved here from there?  
Interviewee: I feel that it ends in, so in Miami, in my part of Miami, no one is from Miami. 
Oh. No one is from the United States. Everyone is from somewhere else. And it's so funny, you can see all these like cultures at, at play and it's like Argentinas and Colombians love each other. Argentina and friends hate each other. Hmm. . Um, it's crazy. Even like in this particular town, in this town, it just comes, it just comes, it just happens because it's like the, there's like levels of politeness and matters of engagement. 
And one of them, for example, is, um, is like being late to things. Mm-hmm. Like, uh, Colombians Andinos are less, are less late to things than Mexicans in men as well. I like buy a lot, especially Cubs. They're always the mostly, and so, so I guess what I'm saying is that in some way Yeah. Like I, I, I have to think so because I've always like found myself like defining myself as many things that I'm not also, that are erupting rather than many things that are around me. 
Hmm. Um, so like, not Cuban. Mm-hmm. that for sure I'm not right. Maybe like there's like a little bit in there, but not really  
Interviewer: sure, but like, especially in this cultural sense, like you are not as late as the Cuban.  
Interviewee: Mm-hmm. . Interesting. Yeah. So defining this sort, what is my whole cultural heritage? Just like I can define it through specific things that are Argentina and Miami and, and um, and new Yorkie in, right? 
Mm-hmm. It's like mm-hmm. I've become data talking around people on the street. Um, what other very New York things do I love? ? Um, um, like going hard at everything. Just cause I feel like it's very New York thing. like, whatever it is. Like I'm more hard at it. Like, whatever. Hmm. Um, coping random people. I feel like it's new Yorkie. 
Um, Miami is like, I like presidente beer and I. . I hate the beach cause I'm a hipster from Miami. So that's what you're supposed to do. ? I've never been to the club there. Mm-hmm. . Oh, okay. Um, where the Miami aspect, like, I'll like dance to some Reggaton thing, which will like conspire and some something in my depth. 
Mm-hmm. . And it feels like inaccurate to me in a way. Cause I'm like, you're not supposed to, you shouldn't like this, but I do. Why shouldn't you? Because Reg one's not Argentina. Reg is what? North, south America and the islands. Yeah.  
Interviewer: But like, you feel, you feel like you shouldn't because of, because of you eat like you consider it yourself. 
Interviewee: Artian. Yeah, exactly. Interesting. Mm-hmm. . So, but now as an adult, I'm like, whether I like it or not, like that shit inspires me. Even on a nostalgic level. I accept it. Mm. Now I'm like, uh, yeah, give it to me. You know? Do a little dance or whatever.  
Interviewer: Can I ask, um, when, how old you were when you moved from Through Miami and  
Interviewee: then Miami. 
I lived in Chicago for two years in between, so mm-hmm. , I moved to Chicago when I was four and then Miami and I was six. Mm-hmm. . Okay.  
Interviewer: So you like grew up with a solid part of your childhood in Miami?  
Interviewee: Yeah. The Moala. Yeah, I did it all my school basically.  
Interviewer: What brought your family over?  
Interviewee: Um, job. Mm-hmm. and my dad was like, this place is gonna get fucked in like two years, so he should leave. 
And so he applied for like an MBA in Loyola in Chicago. We did that. With that we all the over.  
Interviewer: Hmm. Do you still have family who is, or your immediate family? I think you said still in Miami  
Interviewee: and My parents are moving back to Miami right now from her.  
Interviewer: Okay.  
Interviewee: Right, right. They went back and they were coming back. 
Yeah. Yeah. Two times. Two times, two  
Interviewer: times. Lot of travel. My god. Lot of back and forth. A lot. What, where if you were to go home,  
Interviewee: where, where would you go? Where my family is? I guess. Wherever your family is. Yeah. Where my parents are, like the last decade. Um, it's been more than it has in Miami. The last second. 
I've been to eight times in Miami. Twice, and that's why to check, right?  
Interviewer: Mm-hmm. , you, you mentioned to me a couple of days ago, like, you know, post-graduation, if you moved, if you were to move somewhere, you would move to Argentina and your family's in, go to be in Miami. Yeah, I know. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Can you talk to me a little bit about that? 
Interviewee: Yeah, that one's because, um, partially cause of the situation, which is like, School is finishing and so it, it, it allows a moment of change. Mm-hmm. , and I know that I don't want to live here. Um, so if I'm lucky enough to have a work from home job, um, I'll, I'll want to do it in Argentina for a variety reasons. 
Um, doing the job in Argentina is because, was in the same time though. Mm-hmm. , but also like money just goes like five times further. But I can save a bunch of money, pay off a bunch of debt. But the like, more lovely reasons are like, um, one of my girlfriends learning Spanish, uh, and she wants to like, be immersed in Spanish so that she can like, speak Spanish to my family, basically, which is awesome. 
Mm-hmm. . And then, um, um, there's like a fear of loss. Hmm. Um, loss of what? less of culture and less of country. Mm-hmm. , Argentina's going through a very bad time and it has been for a while and it's only getting worse. And so I'm like uniquely aware of people who have not returned to the countries because it's been fucked up like Venezuela. 
My first, my first real girlfriend for like three years was Venezuelan. Um, then, uh, my best friend is both Iranian and Cuban, and my girlfriend is Iranian and Chinese, which I consider all groups of people who have not been able to return to their countries because it's not good. Right. It's not chill. 
It's not like I've put up a Spain and they just like to be in New York. You know, like all these French people that are here, all these English people who are here, they just move back and forth wherever they want. It doesn't matter. Mm-hmm. , these are all like groups of people who literally can't go back and I'm scared that that's gonna happen. 
Mm. And then, um, . And then on top of that, yeah, I don't, now that my parents are moving back, like I will have way less reasons to go back. And it's also really far mm-hmm. . Um, and so I want to just consume as much of it as I can. I enjoy it. I'm just like, ugh. Back. And, um, and, uh, what was I gonna say last bit? 
And also I never lived in BU Aires, so I wanted, she was like, sick. Like, come on, sick. . So sick.  
Interviewer: What do you wanna bask  
Interviewee: in daily social interactions. Mm. 
Like the, just, there's just like a manner of treating people that feels more accurate than Right. And, and just like the way, like the people are quite, um, Welcoming and, and slightly formal and like, uh, but not in a way where, um, it's uh, off-putting, you know, it's like for like, hello sir, how are you? It's not that. 
Yeah. I don't know how to describe it. You know how you walk into the bodega here? You're like, yo, what song? Grab a bunch of shit through it and nothing thing. Yeah. Like, I cannot, like Argentina is like the total deepest opposite. You know, there's like all these like social, little social expectations that are, you know, about saying hello and saying Helen the right way and asking this thing. 
And like, people don't like, have small talk. Like small talk is like good. Small talk is respectful. Small talk is, um, affirming of your existence. And,  
Interviewer: uh, you mean peer people don't have small talk,  
Interviewee: but. . Yeah. You know? Huh? I don't think so. And, and this is what, this is why I like the bodega, because of where they got, you have to, because you, you want to know your BGA bag. 
There's, there's conveniences to it. Mm-hmm. . Um, but also they're usually foreign. So they, they have that manner, which I think, um, like us, things don't have like mm-hmm. , the cashier is like, that's why we have fucking robot cash registers because the cashier's not human. Mm-hmm. ,  
Interviewer: it's  
Interviewee: just a transaction transaction. 
And I'm like, it's not a transaction.  
Interviewer: And, and in Bueno it's, it doesn't feel as transactional.  
Interviewee: Yeah. Everything feels way less transactional, even when desire is a huge city. Yeah. It's less transactional. Yeah. And so I guess there's like a level of humanity and like some kind of humanity that I like. And then also just like being in my dad's town, like. 
which is a truly small town. 
Uh, as much as I don't know anyone, I literally don't know anyone, really. Hmm. And like I say hi to everyone I, my sons hi. To me, it's just like the way that you are, you just walk down the street, you like every single person that passes, it's really like strict.  
Interviewer: Interesting. Yeah. And you're, you're seeking that you want, you're like, I always want it. 
You always  
Interviewee: want it. Hmm. Yeah. I think that's why I feel like I'm pretty like outgoing and then like super, I like know everyone and I kind of make it a, I don't know if I make a point to, but I, it just naturally happens. It's cause I have no other way. I like can't like be in a space without one acknowledging two, like trying three, like going deeper. 
And I'm just like, I'm like a humanist in that sense. So, and that feels slightly personal, but also it is cultural. Like I think every Hispanic person will say that, like, we'll agree with not with the last like three, four things I just said. Maybe we might have slightly different ways of doing some, some things over others, but I think everyone, like everyone will agree. 
I will say that it's been quite nice to, when the first year there's like more Hispanic people than anyone in my here, which is cool. Mm-hmm. kind  
Interviewer: of goes a long way. Do you feel like you can find its of that community here, here being either ITP or New York or like, um,  
Interviewee: there's a problem with like people who live in New York that are from South America is that they tend to be very wealthy and so there's like a, there's a clear like class. 
difference that sort of happens that's like so soft, but it's true. And then it starts to, it starts to pervade interaction after a while. Hmm. Um, so no, not really. I mean, uh, all of my friends from undergrad are Hispanic, essentially, except my one Korean and friend who's basically Hispanic was like, he's my friend and all of our friends 
So he like, we were like, Jeff, you're fucking Mexican, bro. . So, um, yeah. And I also don't think that a Korean person being friends with a bunch of Hispanic people is a, is like a coincidence. I think it's like supernatural and makes a bunch of sense. Mm-hmm. because, um, and it's like Mexicans, Colombians, Venezuelans and me, cuz they're similar. 
They're actually super similar and like they're real deep things. Which are like certain things about like, respect and like, probably Catholicism, actually , not that I think about it. .  
Interviewer: Yeah. . There's a little bit of a thread there, isn't there?  
Interviewee: Yeah. Cool. And so, yeah, so when you ask like, what is Heritage? Like? 
Heritage to me feels like something, um, heritage makes it feel like it's in history. Like it's not actually mine. Like it's part of a story, but I don't live it. Mm. Like  
Interviewer: the word, the word implies it's mm-hmm. , it's done.  
Interviewee: Mm-hmm. for some reason. Yeah. Yeah. Whereas I feel that I, like, I exist in a multiculture. 
Uh, and because of that, obviously, like I. 
there's things that I know that are old mm-hmm. that, um, don't make sense anymore. Or, um, maybe my language is like stuck in the seventies or something like that. Or, um, um, yeah, maybe I have like an oversized understanding of how a container I am because of my current context. Um, what do you mean oversized? 
Like in New York, in the United States, like in the con like inside, okay, in water, the fishes are all fish, but in the air there's a fish in the air. Holy fuck, there's a fish in the air, right? Mm-hmm. . So, um, but maybe like around the bunch of, yeah, like in, again in the ocean, if there's a bird, all fish are gonna be like, holy fuck girl, fuck are you? 
You know what I mean? So, mm-hmm. . That's what I mean. Does that make sense? It does. You know. Yeah. Um, . I think that a lot of work is involved with, involved in like, trying to keep it, but it should come naturally. I think that there's no point in like forcing something that doesn't feel natural, you know, just because of 
there, there might be certain expectations of also, like for example, 
you know how one looks and then how one looks and how one behaves. And so for some, someone might be like, oh, you don't look Mexican, which is like the most fucking racist shit ever. Um, but which implies that you don't, if you don't look Mexican, you aren't Mexican. But if you don't look like a certain kind of Mexican, you probably aren't behaving like a kind of Mexican. 
And then it's like, what does, what does behaving like a Mexican mean? And then like that if you're Mexican, you're like, well, actually I do in this sense, but not in that sense. But if you don't feel like it, like you don't have to. . Mm-hmm. . Like there's, I think, like a lot of Hispanic people, my generation, uh, like who moved here in like 2000, just kind of depends on how old you are, whether you speak Spanish or not. 
Mm-hmm. , but that's like a huge differentiator. And I'm in, I'm in this like sweet spot where we're fully bilingual. Mm-hmm. . But then there's like the kids who came before, um, like don't speak Spanish because their parents were like, we have to fucking only speak English. So like we blend. And then the kids who came after are like, fuck English, really? 
Speak Spanish. So they're like, Hmm. Interesting. Mm-hmm. . Yeah. Huh.  
Interviewer: And like, it's their choice. They come after and they're like,  
Interviewee: fuck it. No. Yeah. Fuck you. I'm not here cause I want to be here. I'm too old for, I'm not gonna learn English. I don't want to talk to all of you. Why? Yeah. Yeah. And I never told you about the re thing, the ref. 
Yeah. So in, in my high school, The kids who moved to Miami basically after 2005 or 2006, mostly from Venezuela, because that's when I got even more fucked up. Um, the kids my age, including me, we used to call them res, which meant refugee, which is horrible. But it was a dis, the distinction was, it was a cultural distinction. 
It was like, you guys are like not learning English, you're refusing to learn English. You'll have like ugly rat tails and you'll wear skinny jeans before anyone wore skinny jeans. Um, and they, or they had like crazy heavy accents and they weren't really studying. Um, and so it was like a class distinction. 
Interviewer: It's like fobs, you're  
Interviewee: Asians. Yes. Yeah. Yes, yes. Precisely the same thing. Yes. Mm-hmm. . Yes.  
Interviewer: Also class, which is also like, you're not, you're not a fob if you came over on a plane.  
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah. Yes, precisely. . Um, at the time I didn't realize how fucked up that was, but it was, you know, I was like steeped in the culture race. 
Right.  
Interviewer: Pervasive. You're just like, that is what it is. Yeah.  
Interviewee: Yeah. And it's also, there's also like a, I, I think it's really interesting to think about it as a proximity to whiteness. Mm-hmm. . Um, and a proximity to Americanness makes it inherently proximity to whiteness, which makes it inherently proximity to nationalism and, you know, and like kind of hate in that way cuz it's like, how the fuck does it just because like, I speak English, make me more American than you, but it does. 
And then like, that's like weird white nationalism. This, that doesn't, didn't even make sense. Cause it's like a lot of those kids were just the same. Right.  
Interviewer: How do you feel about, you know, eventually moving back and having had 10 years of this very close proximity to whiteness. Sented to Americanness. 
Interviewee: Mm-hmm. , nothing feels off when I go to Argentina. Nothing at all. Nothing at all feels off. It feels totally, perfectly normal. Um, so, which is, which is because I've been back so much, so, which I'm really lucky. Mm-hmm. . Um, so on a personal level, yeah. It's like good that my parents were there for so long. , . Um, not for my little sister, but yeah, she might say it wasn't very good for her, but, um, yeah. 
Do you feel like she  
Interviewer: has a different relationship with, with, with cultural heritage, quote unquote than you do? She's  
Interviewee: like 10 times more Argentina than I am. Huh. She's such an Argentina teen. It's crazy. Wow. Yeah. Um, and she was born in the us. Yeah. How old  
Interviewer: is she? 18. 18. So she  
Interviewee: spent the last, she just moved back. 
Wow. . She's going to college in Wisconsin. Ha. Yeah. . Yeah. Yeah. It's quite stark. Yeah. Yeah. Hmm. Stark difference. And so I think if you asked her this question right now, she would have no answer. Hmm. If she doesn't have a cultural heritage.  
Interviewer: Hmm. You don't? You don't think she  
Interviewee: does? Nope. She be like, I don't what, she's not, she wouldn't, she's only, she has not yet realized that she's never Hmm. 
She would realize in a few years. Sure. Yeah. She's starting to understand microaggression stuff. She's older.  
Interviewer: Oh, oh, I see. Yes. Yeah. She was  
Interviewee: like, yeah. People always talk about microaggressions on the internet. , no one was micro aggressing her in Argentina. She's a. Pretty Hispanic. She's a pretty Argentinian girl. 
Yeah, yeah, yeah. No one was micro aggressing her. Maybe in like some misogynist way, but she doesn't even conceive of that yet. Right. But yeah, she's just like now starting to understand people being like, is Mexico Argentina ? And she's like, no, what you fuck. Right. So, yeah. So I think this concept of heritage only really exists if you feel that it's divorced from yourself. 
Hmm hmm. And, and, and it can turn to cosplay, which is weird. So like, think of like the um, like the um, the like crazy Republican conservative dummies with the, with the Confederate flag. Mm-hmm. . That's coplay. Do you  
Interviewer: feel like, or have you met 
other people from Venezuela? Who moved? Who they moved when  
Interviewee: they were younger than you? People from Venezuela who moved when they were younger than me. Yeah. Like you, you  
Interviewer: mentioned like, you know, you're in sweet spot bilingualism. Yeah. Have you met people that you feel like cosplay being Argentinian? 
Interviewee: I don't know. I know, I don't know. I think it's a, it is a, it's in a little bit, it's in a little bit of every immigrant, to be fair. I'm sure it's in me and maybe someone I might perceive as cosplaying. It perceives me as cosplaying. Um, and, um, 
but there's a, there's a, in Argentina there's a, um, I, um, it's called Argentina Tea to the stick. Hmm. Um, and it just refers to like being so extremely Argentina. So there's like an argent, there's an ideal of Argentina that's that. Like you can, you can like really work at Hmm. Which even  
Interviewer: in  
Interviewee: Argentina. 
Mm-hmm. , huh? Yeah. So people could describe other people as like, you know, that guy, he's like, so like fascinating between two and a third. Me, like that guy's way more  
Interviewer: kind of the way you describe your sister. Like she's, she's much margin.  
Interviewee: Yeah, exactly. So yeah. So you can find people who are like, yeah. So yeah. 
To the stick. Huh? I don't know why. Yeah.  
Interviewer: Huh. I, I'm very intrigued by the idea of cosplaying culture. Cause I, I agree. Right? I feel like I've seen it and I feel also afraid of  
Interviewee: it. Mm-hmm. , right? And you're like, oh fuck, am I being inauthentic, basically? Yeah. By like, Trying to like consume my culture. Mm-hmm. 
Yeah. I don't know. , I don't know. Um, I don't know. I, so I recently went to see, or Argentina, play against Jamaica in Jersey. And it was incredible for a variety of reasons, but I had a really bad interaction with a dude. He was clearly ing by what he looked like. Um, basically he was being a huge dick and like refusing to move one seat over. 
And like, my friends and I almost threw him over over the thing, but we didn't throw him. It was that close . Um, but there was like a lot of screaming and stuff happening and like, in this Argentinian context, um, 
like I, my, my brain switched off in a way, like my, my like violence is in Spanish and so Interesting. Yeah. This happened to me in Florida recently too. I had to like scream at someone and like I switched it to Spanish. Huh? Yeah. And so I was like screaming at this man, like this close to his face in Spanish, and I could see in his face that he was sometimes understanding what I was saying, sometimes not understanding what I was saying, which told me something about like how much Spanish she spoke, and I could just see it in his face when he understood what I was saying and when he didn't understand what I was saying and I was saying, mm-hmm. 
and I was going really fast, but at the pace that if you were native you would not understand and you would be responding. We would just be shouting over each other. Exactly. Hearing what I was saying. And I felt it as a moment of like, oh, I got you now as like a, I felt like a little bit of a power win. 
Totally. So I was like, I'm making, I'm, I, I make you in my face look like an idiot. And this is enough in this context to make you shut the fuck up. Which like feels good if you're like, hi, I'm gonna fight. But like in context, it's so weird. So like, . So like if you go to like a cultural event surrounded by people who are at different levels of a spectrum. 
Mm-hmm. , right? Like, who's cosplaying? It's not Coplay. Right? Who's the most, who's the most written routine here? Right. You know, who has the most  
Interviewer: again, right. Like, where's, where's  
Interviewee: this thing? Like what are you, who has the most authentic thing? Who's accent like goes sh Whose accent doesn't go Sh. No. Hmm. 
Language plays a big part. Mm-hmm. . Huge part. Huge, huge part. Especially when you have such a specific accent.  
Interviewer: Hmm. Yeah. But you can measure yourself against other people using mm-hmm. , that accent. Mm-hmm. .  
Interviewee: Yes. Um, yeah. I don't know if this is true in English. I don't know. Obviously I've never counselor.  
Interviewer: I know that English has a different, definitely has class. 
Built in very closely. Mm-hmm. , because it is, so, it's spoken across several count large countries, mm-hmm. that have spread themselves across many other countries. Mm-hmm. ,  
Interviewee: um, but there's never been American immigrants to another country in mass or or without being able to go back and forth. 
Yeah.  
Interviewer: I don't, I I actually, I don't personally feel like I know enough about American history to like, comment on that. Yeah. I do know that English is perceived differently in the United States versus outside of the United States. And the class in that accent is perceived differently. Like, I have a couple of friends who are from Singapore and their Singaporean English accent is in many East Asian countries considered much more, much higher class. 
than the English that  
Interviewee: I speak. Oh, really? Yeah. What, and what do you think, it sounds like they,  
Interviewer: is it like British, slightly British, more formalized. Mm-hmm. . It had, there's like almost a transatlantic little to it. Mm-hmm. , um, and they were like, yeah. I mean Singapore, we all grew up speak being by, by if not multilingual. 
Mm-hmm. , and this is the version of English that they  
Interviewee: teach. Yeah. Well, and you're  
Interviewer: like, well, it's also Singapore is a place of extreme wealth. Yeah.  
Interviewee: It's not a real place 
Interviewer: Yeah. It's interesting, interesting to hear like, for such a specific accent, being able to like  
Interviewee: sift through people hugely. And then in terms of phrases and like, it's like, for example, older Argentina men will be like, listen to me, but they don't mean like, listen to me, like listen to me now. You know, it's like, It's not serious. 
It's just a way of engaging. It's like saying, hey, but they'll say, listen to me. Which is not common now with the younger people, but like it's also a signal of like, oh, you've been around. This is real for you. I don't know. I don't know. It's very weird. Very complicated. Are there  
Interviewer: any things that you feel like you've picked up from your proximity to whiteness or proximity to Americanness here? 
Interviewee: Well, obviously, um, living in New York, uh, just like concepts of race mm-hmm. and like conversations about race and like, things like that. Um, 
yeah. Miami's super, super segregated. So like, it was like my Hispanic, my high school was like 98% Hispanic, 1% white, 1% other. There was literally 13 black kids in my grade and my grade was 500. or 2 51 of the two still. Mm-hmm. very small. Mm-hmm. . Right. So those things aren't, didn't about that at all. So those things are new. 
Um, I feel like, um, 
my, um, like my idea of, um, self, uh, fulfillment is American. Hmm. And yeah. Say, say more about that fulfillment of the self. Like, oh. Like even the, the like idea that I might even consider that I could even make an art. Hmm. Cause I would never say I'm an artist and I'm not refuse, I never refuse to be Okay. 
That's because of my historical identity, I think. And then like, um, but I still see self-fulfillment, which I think is particularly American and like, , like, I will not be censored. Like I will say what I want to say. Hmm. And if you don't like it, that's unfortunate. Which is also somewhat entertainment because of the directiveness. 
Right. Um, whereas for example, I think there's in a lot of cultures, um, uh, like respect for like social, like norms and Americans refuse, like, you know, like the idea that in the US like, like it's obviously good that you can't be like gay, for example. But I think that in a lot of other countries, like it's not just like oppression, it's also like kind of quiet. 
Like, this is just not the way we do things, for example. So just don't, just like, don't, don't, it's not even, don't, he's so gay. You know, for example, like someone might, I can just imagine. I, I don't know if this is true. I don't know, like, in, like, generally, and not just, not just about like, um, sexuality, but like flamboyance is an American concept. 
Hmm. That like exude yourself so much Hmm. Is be so yourself in individual flamboyance. Individual flamboyance. Yes. Huh. And one that I hate, which I refuse, is, um, just like every, every Americans just like love turning, turning everything up all the time. Everything. It's like an air conditioner, . The, the fridge is up all the time. 
The water has to be like, fully hot and like releasing as much water as possible. Like, it's just like, you don't need that much. It's like turn it to turn it into half and then you doing the same thing. It's still hot cause you don't need that much water or like, you know, um, going fast. It is just like, everything is like about, like extra. 
Everything's too extreme. Hmm. Everything's 100  
Interviewer: the best, the furthest, the most I wanna go. And  
Interviewee: all individually the most. Yeah. And in every little thing, it's like that's what drives like consumerism, like so much over consumption. It's just like, you don't need all that. not buying shit. It's like, yeah, but I, well, I want it, but I want it cause I can have it. 
Cause I can. Cause I should, can is ability. So ability is freedom. I know. What about like freedom to not, I don't know. Um, so I try to not do that, but I, you know, obviously I'm sure that I do it more than average Latino, Hispanic, whatever. Latin American. Sure. Consumerist.  
Interviewer: Yeah. You keep, you keep using the words like Hispanic Latino, do you? 
No. Do you have, uh, uh, an identity that fits underneath Hispanic? Yeah. I'm at  
Interviewee: war with, with all that I can hear a little bit of, I think Latino is super fucking racist and so it's Hispanic. , but since I have to use one that you say Hispanic, because Hispanic to me means that I'm not Latino. Cuz Latino includes the north of South America and the Caribbean, which is so different from, I would say like South Ecuador, Bolivia, south Brazil, ua,  
Interviewer: Chile, south,  
Interviewee: south America. 
It's just so different. Like fitness is just so dramatically different. , it's wild. Everything. Like their whole concept of life is just like totally different approach. Social situation. It's the way you speak, the way you say hi, it makes you eat. Everything's just dance music. They play baseball. 
It's just so different. They play baseball and then obviously Central America. Totally poof. All Central America. Poof. Totally different thing, right? Mm-hmm. . And you could say perhaps that that's like slightly constructed you cuz of like racism, nationalism, and like, we kill our indigenous communities like heavily. 
Mm-hmm. eliminated them. 
You don't really have black populations. Not like, not like there's mostly thing as a black or container, but that's like a, that's a common belief in earth too. Really  
Interviewer: just due to rarity or  
Interviewee: extreme rarity. Rare because we killed all, 
Mirawa has a small population of black whites. Yeah.  
Interviewer: If you could,  
Interviewee: alright. 
Interviewer: are you looking for a phrase to describe instead of Latino instead of Hispanic? Oh, I'm  
Interviewee: Argentina. Yeah, because in the US you are whatever you are not, you know, I'm, I wasn't born here and I'm for sure not, not like a Northeastern white guy, not a Midwestern white guy, not  
a  
Interviewee: southern white guy. Not a California white guy. 
I am not a Vermont white guy. I'm not a Virginia White guy, not Oklahoma white guy. I'm not any of the white guys like that. So I must be Argentina. Hmm. It's the only other one I got. Not what am 
Interviewer: And you wouldn't consider yourself from Miami?  
Interviewee: Fuck, no. Fucking hate Miami. I'm so not Miami, but I'm so Miami, but I'm so not Miami. . Like if you were to meet like someone who was like from Miami, you'd be like, oh wow. Hmm. Someone who like grew up in Miami, lived in Miami their whole life. They're so specific. 
Oh my God. And you reject that. I reject that. Okay. I reject that. I reject the accent. I reject the things that they like, things that they assume. Cause they're not Argentina. They're like, there's like a Cuban, central American, north South America thing. And all of this I think is related to recency of immigration and of course socio economic power of certain country. 
Like Argentina didn't have these problems until 2005. Really? Like Argentina didn't move from Argentina until like 2000, whatever. My dad just had some foresight. 
So for a long time it was the only Argentina around or if not the ones who were around were super rich. Because they could just move whenever they want.  
Interviewer: Your family moving back to Miami. Mm-hmm. , is that also like social, political?  
Interviewee: Yeah. Yeah. My dad was like, this is fucked up again. gotta get outta here again. 
And also my little sister going to college, which is good thing.  
Interviewer: I mean, not that Miami's particularly close to,  
Interviewee: closer than Argentina. Yeah. Four hour.  
Interviewer: Is that it? I thought it was longer.  
Interviewee: It's too far. It's three hours from here. Plus a two hour drive from uh, Chicago. You can only get there. It's like a small airport. 
Get any flights. It's pretty funny. It's a great place. You would be very surprised. Madison, which is where my sister is. It's basically Berkeley. Like it looks like Berkeley. Feels like Berkeley. It's just cold. Yeah. I was Berkeley. Nice at this sun. , I'll be honest. Mm gram Okay. . I was like, wow. Hmm. I was like very pleasantly surprised to discover that. 
So yeah. Miami my, again, but I don't want live there. Right. Not for me. I think they're only going there cause they have a house, so. Right. They have a house. Sure. Hopefully they'll, they'll leave before it goes underwater. 
We'll see . Yeah.  
Interviewer: We'll see how soon that is. Yeah. Um, if you were right post-graduation move mm-hmm. move to move back to mm-hmm. , would that be a for forever  
Interviewee: move for you? No. No. It's not viable. It's not viable situation. So as long as I like a year of max too. A year of max. Wow. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Max two years. 
Yeah. Just gather money, pay off what I need to pay off, feel good about my life, and then like continue the drudgery of everyday life. It's, it is a little bit of like a long trip. Okay. Basically, yeah. 
Interviewer: I don't know if you have something to do after this. I know we, there's always work. There's always work. Um,  
Interviewee: but do you have any final closers? I was  
Interviewer: gonna ask you if you had any final thoughts because like, for me, all, all I'm doing is having conversations. Okay. And like, 
processing them. Absorbing them. Okay. Like hearing from people.  
Interviewee: Um, no, I guess like what I, my question is like, what are you trying to answer? What's your, what's your, what are you seeking to, what are you trying to, are you, what are you finding, what are you trying to find? What are you looking for? .  
Interviewer: That's a great question. 
Yeah. I am. I, I'm, what I'm, what I'm doing is what I consider mapping. is mapping immigrant, second generation, first generation experience. Mm-hmm. and the possibilities of it. Okay. And that for me, I'm kind of finding my place mm-hmm. in all of that. Mm-hmm. , because like, I've had the thought of what does cosplay look like? 
Mm-hmm. here. Mm-hmm. . And I've had the thought of what does home, and I have the spectrum of people being like, you know, I never thought about my heritage until coming here, and I've had to fight for my heritage. Or I have people say, I've been thinking about this since the day I was born here because I don't fit anywhere. 
And then I have people who are like, I'm neither of these things. I'm this third thing. Mm-hmm. , and like, that's all that matters. Mm-hmm. and I think, right. I, I'm, I'm doing all these interviews. I'm the guise of like thesis. Mm-hmm. . And like, I think at some point in some ways it does funnel like a thesis, but like, it's, it's more selfish than that. 
Mm-hmm. , it's like, pulling ideas and, and to some extent getting to know friends. Mm-hmm. Sure. You're like . Um, and, and just like providing a space for this like voluntary conversation about a thing that I am like deeply interested in. Mm-hmm. across cultures and across like, like I really, I'm very interested in folks who have immigrated not just to the United States. 
Mm-hmm. . Right. Um, and what does that look like for them? Like, what is, what does having an American identity look like? If you had an American immigrated somewhere, go find new one. I don't, I don't have,  
Interviewee: you've probably seen the movie Nomad Bland. No, that's, you should watch it because it's actually kind of good. 
But my, like, that's my prime issue with the, I take heavy issue with that movie in the sense that there's like zero acknowledgement that in any other country and the person in that situation would've just left the country. And it's a, it's not a movie about poverty. It's a movie about an American. wealth to me. 
Hmm. Interesting. I was like disgusted. I was like, you'd rather shit in a bucket than move to Mexico and get a real job, huh? Yes. And that's a problem. November. That exactly is a problem. Hmm. Um, yeah, no, I don't know. I think it is also so variable. Um, uh, there's this, uh, singer, her name is Natty Paluso. 
Mm-hmm. . She's, uh, born in Argentina, but she most of her life in Spain. And she like Coplay, kind of like Reggaton. She gets shit on it Argentina. So heavy people are like, so you don't messy Right. A soccer player. Yeah. So he's Argentina. He live in Spain. His all life too. Mm-hmm. , but uh, so messy has the heaviest Argentina accent. 
It's crazy. And he fully grew up in Spain. And this girl, NA Peluso, who also basically mostly grew up in Spain, um, , she, it's super weird. Her like, accident is super mixed and she like, it seems like she's like turning it on and off when she wants to. Interesting. And so people would be like, messy lived in Spain for, you know, 34 years, you know, from the age one. 
And he's like, which is in a joke of Argentina in accent. And then same thing, it's like 90 Peluso 20 lived in here for, lived in Spain for 10 years. Like 
s like another joke about Spain. So, um, I don't know. I think that it's all like how much you want to embrace it and how much you care. And there's a nature about it. It's like if Timothy Shany was like 
you know, all the time, it's like, he's like, no, I'm from New York. I just like went to France a lot. Right. So it would be weird and disingenuous. He was like, yeah, yeah, my name is that. Cause that's where my family's from. It's like mm-hmm. . . Like, it's like if my children, my, I had a son and his name was like, you know, Diego Novice, which is actually my uncle's name, so I'm not gonna do that. 
But, and he spoke only English. Right? Right. So I think he'll have a way more interesting answer to your question than me. Interesting. Is relative. Yeah. Right. He'll have probably more definite or maybe more conflicted. Yes. Where has more conflicted, especially with someone with a father like me, 
I dunno.  
Interviewer: But yeah. Yeah. I don't know. There's no, there's no question to answer. The question is what is, what can experience look like? Do you feel at peace with it? Do you feel at peace with where you are? How did you get there? What makes you feel like  
Interviewee: this? Well, I feel that partially I need to go to Argentina to feel at peace with it. 
Mm-hmm. . Yeah. I need to, I need to go to get it and then leave. because it's not actually viable.  
Interviewer: Do you ever think about the kind of privilege that is that I get to go, that I get to go and come back?  
Interviewee: Yeah. Big time. It's huge. It's great. Fucking awesome. And, um, yeah, no, I know, I know that it's huge because, um, like my cousin was taking an Italian class on Zoom and the class was in Argentina, and then like every time she was like in a breakout room or something, they'd be like, okay, hi man. 
She'd be like, yeah, her name is Lucia. I'm Lucia and I live in New York. And they'd all be like, oh my God, you are so lucky not to live here. We're so fucked. You know? And she'd be like, it's just sad. It's just sad. sad. And yeah. So for sure, for sure. That's why like, um, going is only a long trip  
Interviewer: for me. Right. 
To soak, to soak some of it in. Mm-hmm. 
I have thoughts about visiting Taiwan in a similar way of like, I don't think I moved back to Taiwan anytime soon. Yeah. And I still have family there, so I can visit. All  
Interviewee: right. Yeah. No, you should. And if you can go for extended period, you should. Yeah. It'll fucking be awesome.  
Interviewer: But like my parents, I talked to them and they're like, we would never, like we we're not moving there. 
Yeah, yeah. Because like we can't, you do you fucking see the news? Yeah. Yeah. Right. And it's a different kind  
Interviewee: of more fucked, but like it's way more fucked. . Yeah. Fuck yeah. In the government is actually after you, it's like way more fucked. So, um, yeah, that's another one. It's like Syrians or Palestinians or something, you know what I mean? 
It's like they cannot, I'm not going back. Right. They're not trying to go back. They cannot, um, . There's so many more of those countries now that I'm starting to think about it. That's the bad part, huh?  
Interviewer: Mm-hmm. . Right? When we think about the United States being this like, or like a lot of those countries view the United States as the refuge, and it was the refuge for my parents. 
Mm-hmm. , but then you get this whole other washing away of the things that made you who you are, are the things that made your, your, your identity what it is  
Interviewee: here? Yeah. I think I had like a pretty easy, easy in, in the sense that, like, I lived in Delal in Miami, which was a place where everyone had just got there. 
Mm. Just got there like year, 2, 3, 4, 5 years max before a totally new place. Like when I moved there, the towns, the town was not done. It was still mostly swamp, and so it's like everyone was, Just still like super Hispanic. So it wasn't like a thing. I think that like a lot of people who move here are like, I moved to Wichita from fucking Tijuana, and it's like, wow. 
Oh, I just like bang.  
Interviewer: Right. You hit, you hit the full front  
Interviewee: force of it. Yeah. And I think also for Asian people it's like, like you Asian people, location, you know? And I think that's a thing. I think that like you could, like me, I could easily like look disguise and look more, more like white guy. Right.  
Interviewer: You could code in a certain way. 
Yeah, exactly. Change clothes, change hair, whatever it is.  
Interviewee: Yeah. Um, and so, and I think that like that also impacts like the, the, your physicality has to interest impacts. Mm-hmm. your experience. Because as much as we like to identify as X, Y, Z in any realm, and like, yeah. I think that people, we should all respect that of people if they shall wish. 
It's actually kind of irrelevant because it's unfortunately, it's like what you're going to  
Interviewer: be perceived as. Mm-hmm. . Yeah. I, yeah. That's, that's been another thread that came through in some of these interviews that I actually hadn't really expected. Um, was that like, yeah, I identify as, I'm say Asian American broccoli, uh, cuz nobody's gonna perceive me as anything else. 
Like, I might identify as Californian or Anor for, uh, Pacific, Northwestern. Mm-hmm. . But like, look  
Interviewee: at me . I, I, did I ever tell you about, uh, the time that I was walking on the street and I got called gay? No, this is a crazy story. So I was like, it was like two summers ago and I was walking on the street after I played tennis with another dude. 
We were both shirtless so hot. We were just totally wet. Mm-hmm. , we were walking on the street. and these, uh, like Central American, um, uh, what do you call it? Like, uh, construction worker guys in Spanish. When after we walked by, like, call us gay. Hmm. I was like furious on multiple levels. . I was like, number one, don't call people gay. 
It's like that. It's fucked up. Number two, you didn't think that I speak Spanish cause I look like a white guy to you right now to I look like a white guy to you. Mm-hmm. because you're Central American and then you think, I didn't hear you. Stupid motherfucker rip your head off. Right. Um, and so I think that again, all that told me was like just a matter of who's looking at  
Interviewer: you one year. 
Okay. You were disrespected at so many different levels. Mm-hmm. because of his perspective. Yeah. Not because of, but like through this perspective. Yeah.  
Interviewee: As much as like I can hold an Latino identity and be like, I'm Hispanic, Latino, or whatever, that guy who's Hispanic, Latino or whatever was like, like hmm hmm. 
Because he wouldn't have said that if he thought. Spanish. Sure. It was like two six foot tall white guys. Like the other guy was jacked too. I'm not jacked, but that guy was jacked, you know? So I was like, why would you? Right, right. Those guys would never fight us. It wouldn't make any sense. Right. So why would you say that? 
So, um, so yeah, and again, that just proved to me like unfortunately it's what you are perceived as. And then I think it also, it just takes, um, good will from the other to accept whatever your perception is. And I think that that's like sort of where these, this is a more relevant question for people who are trans, I think. 
And it's just like, if you're a transfer, you're just an asshole. Like if there's no other, you're just being an asshole. Mm-hmm. . Cause you don't feel like being nice about it. , that's all it is. Just be nice about it, dude. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um, so anyway. Yeah. Right. That's, that's what I think. Thanks for talking. 
Absolutely. My, my pleasure. I talk a lot, so I'm . It's great. . Get a lot out of you. Hopefully that helped. Um, yeah, it did. If, if you come to another, um, if you come to another crossroad somehow you will do. Yeah. Uh, wow.