 
Interviewer: This on and leave this here. And it's just me sitting here. Long time. Hi. Hello. Hi, .  
Interviewee: Um, we're just gonna  
Interviewer: talk a little bit about Okay. What, what you consider to be your, like, cultural heritage, what you feel connected with. Um, so let's start off with like what do you identify as in terms of your culture and your ethnic city and background? 
Interviewee: I guess technically I am my parents or, yeah, I was born in South Korea. Um, my parents  are both South Koreans as well.  
 Um, and then I moved to the US when I was seven. So technically I got a little bit of taste of Korea when I was younger. Mm-hmm. . Um, so there's a lot of things I associate with Korea, but at. 
A very like seven year old level. Um, and so I, I went to like pre-K, so I had like a really, really basic understanding of like what the culture was and not so much, uh, but when I moved to the us um, my mom did like kuman for Korean. She just had like a bunch of packets from Korea and, um, I absolutely knew, knew no English when starting school. Interviewee: Okay. Okay. Um, and so, uh, yeah, and then basically I, um, my parents spoke Korean at home. We ate Korean food. Uh, but they didn't like say that we needed to be a certain way. We needed to at a certain way. It was just more about certain, um, basic. 
Like, I guess the way we lived in Korea was almost similar. Hmm. Um, it's just that, uh, like, you know, taking your shoes off, like little things that you just didn't really think about as,  but as part of, um, the Korean culture as a whole. Um,  and then there were certain values I, I recognized more and more when I, as I was growing up from my parents that were kind of like, passed down to me. 
Hmm. Um, so I think though, when it comes to cultural heritage, I was actually thinking about like what that meant or like, what does it mean to have cultural heritage or like,  what does, what  do those words mean? And um, I think like initially when I think about it, it comes down to like food. Mm-hmm. . I think that's like a big thing for me. 
Um, which is interesting over language. Uh, yeah. And then, . Another thing I was thinking of is values, like kind of not like secondary values that we don't really like think about. We don't like say them out loud, but it's like kind of passed down to us. Like what? Uh, so I can't think of anything for some reason on the spot right now, but I guess it's kind of like, uh, to give a bad example, like your dad or like, I guess my dad being like a certain way or like want me to act a certain way because of his background. 
And it's like for like hearing those kind of things, I automatically start to kind of, um, reflect, like I can see it in myself sometimes. Like I have to pause and think about like, oh, is this like me or is it like something like, uh, remnant from being with my dad so much and him pushing his  values on me. 
And so, uh, like for example, the beauty standard, right? Mm-hmm. , I think now, now I can think of something on top of my head. Um, so like both my, of course, like in the Korean and beauty standard, it's all about like double eyelids. Of course. Like nowadays, I think in current day Korea, it's a lot more about like inner beauty or like, not necessarily inner beauty. 
There's still a lot of like what physical beauty matters. Okay.  
Interviewee: Um, but in terms of double eyelids, it's less like, oh, I, they think monolith are now attractive. Like it gives like a unique feature. Um, but previously then in at least like in my parents' generation, everybody wanted double eyelids and I think that was a big complex for my dad. 
And growing up, he would always say, you would look so much prettier if you had double eyelids. And then towards, as I was growing up, even more, he's like, let's go like. . I, I think it was more lighthearted. Of course he wouldn't like force it on me, but he was like, let's go to Korea. I know great doctors, like I have connections. 
Like we could get you some like double eyelids surgery. And like, I think I kind of internalize that in a certain way because my mom has like double eyelids and lowkey, she has like triple eyelids because I think like her age aging makes your eyes like even more deeper. But um, yeah, she also had mono lids growing up, but then after she got married and she had kids, uh, she got double eyelids. 
And my dad always had tiny ass eyes and I just remember like he was trying to put in contacts and that was very difficult for him. And he was watching, I just remember walking in on him in the bathroom and he was watching this like 13 year old YouTuber being like, oh, this is how you put on contacts. 
And then he was struggling so much to take it out versus like putting it in. Um, but anyway, off on that tangent. , uh, I think I realized that like certain things like that, like, you know, how it's a little bit more, um, acceptable in Korea to be like, Hey, you're getting a little fat, like maybe you should lose some weight than you'd look prettier. 
And I noticed kind of like, you know, not saying it out loud, of course, but like thinking that when I, well, like in middle school and like high school, like when I met people, I would like judge them by their physical appearance. Mm-hmm. And so those types of values, I think, of course these are negative values. 
There's definitely like positive values, um, but things like that, definitely. I think, uh, I, it's really interesting to think about like cultural heritage in that sense because I don't think I know Korea enough. I didn't visit it often. I like when I was seven or. , like before then. I think like, technically our memories only remembered like after four years old or something like that. 
And so technically I only have like three solid years of like Korean memory, but it's not like we might have done traditional things like on, is that? And when I think about it, like the instant thing you think of is like melting pot. Like it's just a mix of different people. Um, and I think that when people go to Korea, they're like, oh, that's a foreigner because of how they act or like how it's like how they think is a little bit different. 
And I think in that sense, I can see that I'm like quotation mark American in that sense, where it's like you're a little bit more free thinking. You're not, um, you're not thinking about the kind of hierarchies within like a social setting. So for example, in Korea there's a lot of like, , if you're older, you're automatically respected. 
Mm-hmm. , like, if you go against them, then that's like you are disrespecting them. You're rude, and  like you're canceled in  a way. Um, so like for example, if you go to like a college setting, you're, um, Sunday, which means like elder or, uh, like upperclassmen. Yeah. Okay. And those people are always like respected even though they're wrong. 
Hmm. Or even they're, they're kind of stupid. Um, so it's like, oh, you disre you're disrespecting me. Like us  
Interviewer: Like, like, you should be out of here. Hmm.  
Interviewee: Um, so in that sense, like, I personally believe that I, I guess like this I would say  
Interviewer: is more of an American value, where like you need to earn your respect. 
Just  
Interviewee: because you are older than me does not give  
Interviewer: you like one  
Interviewee: leg up. Yeah. And I Do you? Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. Do you No, no. Go ahead.  
Interviewer: Have you felt that way when you have visited Korea? Like have you experienced that yourself?  
Interviewee: No, I don't think so, because I haven't really like visited Korea much, but I think like in the US or at least like the, uh, Koreans in America, I don't know if they're necessarily Korean American. 
The people I've interact with who, um, have lived in the US and are Korean, um, they, like you start off by saying it. So there's like informal, informal language when you speak to someone. And the, uh, informal is of course like to friends or like younger people. And the formal, you automatically just start doing it  
Interviewer: to, um, like people who are  
Interviewee: older than you. 
Hmm. And then like, even if it's like one year apart, you start doing it and then a lot of the times, yeah, a lot of the times here or maybe even in Korea, I'm not a hundred percent sure about that. , but they say like, oh, it's okay. You can like drop it. Like you, you can like be a little bit more, like less formal about that. Um, but yeah.
Interviewer:  Yeah. you mentioned earlier, um, like kind of ranking food above language as a cultural tie for yourself. Like what, what did you mean by that?  
Interviewee: So, oh, okay. So when it comes to language, going back to like the formal and informal, I think my parents were unique in the sense that, so even with your parents, you're supposed to be speaking formal. 
A lot of the traditional families in Korea, um, like even my friends, they just like say like, it's, if I had to do an equivalent, it would be like, thank you father, thank you mother. Instead of like, thanks mom, thanks dad. Mm-hmm. . And so I think my parents were very, weirdly, I, I feel like a lot of Koreans would say they were like Americanized or like, they were very like American in their way of like, our upbringing, my brother and I. 
Um, and so they wouldn't like force us  
Interviewer: to use, uh, formal speak.  
Interviewee: And also, um, my brother growing up, so he came here when he was three. And so he basically, his first memory was in the US and he, when we were living in California, then we moved to Oklahoma. He thought California was Korea.  And, um, so, uh, yeah, my supposedly your younger sibling is also supposed to call you like "unnie" 
Um, so, so that's like for male, younger child to call an older, not necessarily like a brother or sister, but like somebody else that is like older. Um, "unnie" is like sister and then brother is young. And so, um, sometimes, like at the very beginning, my parents would like catch my brother and be like, oh, like you said, you should say 
And I, I would be like, that's so weird. Like, I don't like that. And it's like, um, I just realized I went off on a big tangent. But basically it's all about, it's all about, 

I just wanna hear, like, I  
Interviewer: wanna hear your thoughts, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Don't ever feel like you need to stick to something. Okay. Okay. 
Interviewee: We're here to talk. Yeah, yeah. No, but if you feel like I'm  
Interviewer: like rambling, just like ask a question or like,  
Interviewee: yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah, but I bring that up because like, I'm not very  
Interviewer: familiar with like formal mm-hmm. . And so  
Interviewee: I feel like understanding the language is like a big part or like, I think just because you started speaking it or like  
Interviewer: can like, communicate with it to a good level. 
I personally can't say that. Like, just based on language, I'm Korean. Mm-hmm. , like, it's very hard for me  
Interviewee: to like accept that. Hmm. Um, I'm not of course like saying that's like, The case for everyone else. Um, I just know that like when I met a lot of, uh, people, they kind of said like, uh, like a lot of Korean adults in the us, when they hear me speak Korean, they're like, oh, you're so good. 
Like, were you like born in Korea? And I was like, oh, I was, but I came here when a seven and they were like really impressed because I think a lot of the times, um, kids who come to the US that are my  
Interviewer: age don't like to continue  
Interviewee: the language mm-hmm. . Um, and I was like recently talking to a friend about this and turns out like a lot of the, uh, Korean American girls want to go back to their roots while the Korean  American boys like don't necessarily try to relearn the language. 
Um, I just remember in like high school, I tried to like, I wanted to write better and read better in Korean because I felt like. . Um, in terms of like cultural identity, I wanted to like, get back to that part. Hmm. Um, and so a lot of the times, like even now, I think I like, there's like certain types of grammar that I get like confused with. 
Um, and it's not like based on like, does it make sense or not? It's, it's one of those like rules. It is what it is. Mm-hmm. ,   it's like receive, like, you know, the c e I thing mm-hmm. and it's like, but it's sometimes it's like c i e or like it's not, or like, there, there are like  rules in English. I, I can't recall exactly where there's like, I literally can't remember how to spell receive  in this moment. 

Interviewer: I think it's R E C E I V E
Interviewee: Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Yeah. Um,  
Interviewer: what, what happened in high school for you then to make, to like, for you to want to get back to those roots? I can't  
Interviewee: remember. There probably was a reason, but I think like in my current brain, I'm thinking that I just wanted to be able to like, I just think that being able to like speak multiple languages and like be fluent in them is like very cool. 
And also, um, just being able to like talk to my parents in Korean and I think like is like a special connection for me. I just know that sometimes when I talk to my parents in English, I use their vernacular, is that the right word? Or like their way of speaking English or it's not necessarily proper grammar, but it's words that grammar or structure, sentence structures, they understand. 
So I sometimes use that. So it's like, for example, um, let's see. It's like if my dad did like, created something really nice, I would say like, oh, that, that very good. Instead of like, that looks really amazing or nice or like using harder words. And sometimes it just like doesn't translate. And I had this talk with my brother where, um, a lot of times, like growing up, we had arguments with my dad, but I ended up closing off to him a lot towards my high school years because I think it was very frustrating to me to not be able to speak my mind, especially in Korean too, because it's just like I have, I, I know what emotions I'm feeling, I know what things that I'm very frustrated  
Interviewer: with, but I can't speak to you in English with that because the  
Interviewee: translation gets lost. 
And then sometimes, you know, even the tone gets messed. So like, it becomes accusatory and it becomes, you know, uh, just they make their own assumptions. And so, um, that was like that for me, but I can't imagine how much worse it was for my brother because he, I would sometimes hear them like arguing. and he would say it in English and my dad would say like, reply in broken English, or like, go in Korean. 
And I think they got frustrated a lot with each other in terms of that. I think there, there's just a lot more layers to that than Sure. Yeah. But um, in terms of that, like I continue to like ask my mom, like, how do you say this? But I make an effort to write Korean in text because of course Matt is in Korean and I don't see myself using that ever again. 
And like in terms of like outside of my family or like,  
Interviewer: um, my Korean, Korean  
Interviewee: friends mm-hmm. . Um, so I, I, I don't know what in my, it is necessarily that I want to preserve it, but I even thought that like if I were to have kids, I want to teach a Korean and I want math to teach them Spanish because I feel like. 
It kind of makes me think about the fact that like, you know, one time my mom said that she had these photos of her grandma, so like my great-grandma, but then I never met her before. And she was like, oh, I guess I should, she said I should toss these out. And for a moment I was like, why would you, these are like really precious memories, like why would you toss 'em out? 
And then I realized no one knows her except my mom. So like, I personally felt like I wanted to continue this piece of memory. I don't know if it's a, memory is the right word, but like, not even tradition, but like my identity. But it's not just my identity, it's like my line of identity. But it's like, why? 
I guess like, then it raises a question over like why is that important? But yeah, it's just. Just very interesting to think about. I think for me, I think that's something I'm like always, it's like always on my mind and I'm just like constantly thinking about it. Um, but yeah, going back to food , I think, uh, I think food is like what identifies me the most because I realize that now that I'm living kind of away from my family, um, I am drawn towards the foods that I ate a lot as a kid. 
Hmm. And it's, for example, there's like the soup, which is, I think, I think it's very close to like oxtail bone broth. Okay. But it's literally just a broth, like pe to a lot of people it would be like, why you, are you drinking like cloudy water? Like ittastes like dish water, but like to me, that tastes like home and that tastes like hours of effort by my grandma put into it. 
And I think. . Um, yeah, it's like those kind of things, like those taste buds and those flavors. Like you, you can't just start liking, it's like hard sometimes there are things that you can't just like, be like, oh yeah, that's definitely good. Like I feel like compared to when you were a kid eating a Twinkie versus like an adult, you're like, holy shit, like this processed shit. 
Like why would I be eating this? But then as a kid you start to build a identity around food and like, um, has nostalgia factor and like I, uh, there's like this candy, I think it's like package, package peanuts?  
Interviewer: No,  
Interviewee: wait, I, it looks like it's like peanut, but it's like a marshmallow circus. Peanut, yes. Okay. 
Okay. I, you know, I always saw circus peanuts were actual  
Interviewer: peanuts. I thought so too. Uh, except my friend named her Cat Circus Peanut, his full name, full name is Circus Peanut.  
Interviewee: Oh, he's orange.  
Interviewer: So  
Interviewee: he's the little orange. Interesting. Okay. Okay. Well now, now I know. Um, but yeah, I used to eat those in Korea when I was a kid, and so I think like, I also have like an attachment to those in a way. 
It's like I associate with Korea when it's clearly like American brand or like mm-hmm. , whatnot. Um, so, uh, yeah. It also brings me back to like, maybe I wonder though if it's like authentic or like, what does that count as Korean, and if my grandma  
Interviewer: or like my mom put a,  
Interviewee: their own twist to it, does it become like my family's thing or is it part of the Korean, uh, culture? 
Like  
Interviewer: am,  
Interviewee: am I, I don't know if allowed to is the right word, but am am I allowed to associate myself with Korean food or Korean culture? when it's been passed down to me rather than, like, I experienced it for myself. Mm-hmm. . Um, but that's not to invalidate my grandma or my mom as Koreans. Um, but yeah, it's like very different from, you know, learning from like a cur uh, traditional cookbook  
Interviewer: of like, ah, you use these specific things. 
Interviewee: Um, but yeah, and it's like I learned certain aspects within food from my, um, mom and my grandma. So like when you go to the grocery store, like, you know what to look for and I, it's like, ah, yeah, that brand of Korean pepper powder. Or like, there's a difference between like, you know, American chili powder versus a Korean chili powder. 
And it's like, just knowing those little nuances, um, makes me sometimes excited, I guess, because it's like, oh, it's like secret. That other people here wouldn't know, but I know. Mm-hmm. And it's like sometimes, oh, it's another funny thing is like, um, when it comes to like makeup and hair, I like to look it up in Korean. 
Mm-hmm. Just to see it on people like me and my facial feature. So that like, what is actually suitable to, you know, people that look like me. Um, yeah. And cuz like, you know, a lot of American makeup brands or like hairstyles, they're suited for Caucasian white women a lot of the times. And it's like nice that I have this like access where I can like, um, you know, they just have their own set of  
Interviewer: resources around like beauty and like  
Interviewee: hair. 
Mm-hmm. . And so in a way it's like nice that I get to dip my toes into like the two worlds, um, two worlds being like Korean and American. 
Interviewer: Do you, do you consider yourself Korean American or do you consider it yourself like a Korean person in America?
Interviewee:  I've probably wouldn't have to say Korean American. 
Hmm. Yeah. Yeah. I have nothing to add to that. .  
Interviewer: Um, have you thought about, like, you said you haven't been back to Korea mm-hmm. very often. Like is that something that you're thinking about for the future or like, hoping to get to do? 
Interviewee:  Yeah, so, um, I think the reason that we, like, we didn't really go back is a lot of other families do, but of course it's not always like true necessarily, but a lot of the people that I've interacted with, um, like my parents friends, um, and their kids are Korean, and I notice that a lot of the times when these people come to America, they're doing it on  the grandparents' money.  And a lot of the   people that come to America are people who are well off in Korea.   in this case, my parents are not well off. And they decided to do like the whole American dream thing. Um, and it, what was I gonna say to that? What was your  question?
Interviewer:  I don't remember, but this is interesting. Can you tell me more about what brought your family  here? 
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah. Okay. So my dad was studying overseas. I don't know why in the us but he is doing like a PhD for research. Mm-hmm. . Um, he was here in,  
Interviewee: California alone for a bit. He was, I think he was living with like this like,   uh, white old lady. I like hearing  
Interviewee: about. 
It was the cutest relationship ever because like, she would like make him like breakfast, but then he would be like, I hate this because it's like, Like American food and, oh, no, because like in Korea, a lot of the times, like during breakfast, you just   eat a full ass meal with like rice and soup  
Interviewee: and like mm-hmm. 
meat or whatever. And he was like, it was so sweet. But I would get like super nauseous with like the heavy American stuff. . Um, yeah. And so he was here and then he got an opportunity to, I guess like do  
Interviewer: research with like, um, this one other person. And  
Interviewee: we all decided to  
Interviewer: like, move with him and that's why we ended up being here. 
Oh, I think I remember why I brought the other family up. It's because, um, I forgot again. Oh, I think, I think I asked like whether you thought about going back or like if you had any plans.  
Interviewee: Oh yeah, now I remember. Okay. So the reason that we don't really go back is because, um, like we don't have a lot of extended family that we're close to mm-hmm. 
Um, and so. Yeah. And why I brought up the other family is because they actually go back really often, almost like once a year. And that was like the norm. Mm-hmm. . And that's a lot to be able to afford it or like to us when we were growing up, cuz it's like two grand per person flying. Like, and then you also have to take time off work. 
Mm-hmm. and like there it is. Just, it, it seems like a lot. So the only time we went back to Korea was first in 2009 or 2010 when I started high school. My mom's side, grandma was in a  
Interviewee: coma and so we flew there on an emergency and we were there for like a week. And honestly, even though the situ situation was really bad, I was really excited to go back to Korea. 
Mm-hmm. . Um, I wasn't very close to my grandma. Um, we would like. Have like phone calls with like the prepaid cards at that time, cuz like we didn't have like internet connecting calls then. Um, and I remember like dreading talking to my grandparents on the phone because I just did not like the idea of like speaking in Korean also like phone anxiety. 
Sure. Um, and so I don't know, like now that I look back on that time, I wish  
Interviewer: I was there more for my  
Interviewee: mom, but I think like what could I have done? Like I  
Interviewer: also didn't know about grief and Sure.  
Interviewee: Um, whatnot. And, but I remember when I went back to Korea that for that one week, there's this, my dad also remembers this, but when he says  
Interviewer: it, it seems, he's like, he seems like a douche bag,  
Interviewee: but, or asshole. 
Not a douche bag. Um, but there was, so the hospital my  
Interviewer: grandma was staying at,  
Interviewee: um, there was a restaurant at the first floor. and they had the best oxtail, bone  
Interviewer: broth soup. Mm-hmm.  
Interviewee: with like pickled radishes. And that is like  
Interviewer: the best like soup that I remember having. And my dad also like gushes about that. 
Um,  
Interviewee: within that unfortunate situation,  
Interviewer: there came a, I don't know if it counts on the silver lining because it's not related to  
Interviewee: anything , but yeah. It seemed like a pretty strong memory for you. Mm-hmm. , I think, I wonder if I blocked out a lot of that memory. I, I remember like going into the hospital, I think when it comes to weak, like people showing weaknesses and, um, grief, I shut down a little mm-hmm. 
and I kind of don't process it properly. Like recently,  
Interviewer: um, my, or I guess like two years ago now, like during the pandemic, my grandma  
Interviewee: ended up getting sepsis because, um, or like, it started with a uti, but  
Interviewer: she never had a UTI before. And then so, uh, she was like, I don't know what's going on. And then she started having like, uh, chills. 
Mm-hmm. and like  
Interviewee: really extreme fevers. And then turns out it was like sepsis. And so we took her to the hospital. She actually was so only like one person was allowed. So  
Interviewer: I was in like, the  
Interviewee: waiting room and my dad was in there with her. Um, and I remember him talking about how, uh, she, cuz like the fever was so high,  
Interviewer: she was like starting to hallucinate and like, whatever. 
And she was like, I gotta leave. Like I gotta get out. And like, didn't even  
Interviewee: recognize my dad. Mm-hmm. . Um, and at that point, like, I don't think I felt anything like, in a weird way.  
Interviewer: Like it, it feels weird to say I didn't  
Interviewee: feel like. , I, it didn't feel the gravity of the situation. Hmm. Um, and I wonder if it has to do with like, uh, my parent or like, I don't know, I don't wanna blame it on my parents, but like, the way we were raised to not process emotions properly. 
Mm-hmm. . Um, but I remember just my friends being like, Hey, like, is your grandma okay? Like, any updates on her? And I was kind of like, I don't really know. Hmm. And they were like asking a bunch of questions that I could have technically asked my dad, but  
Interviewer: I was like, I kind of don't want to know. Does that feel like a, your family thing, a Korean thing? 
Like does,  
Interviewee: yeah. I'm not sure, but I, I wanna say it's a Korean thing just because like, you know, maybe it's an Asian thing where like people don't want to talk about things. Um, also a lot of times, like my dad grew up. in a hard situation like compared to, to how I am now. Definitely. It was like, you know, right after the war, it's like everyone's poor and it's like, you know, um, so I think for him, a lot of the times growing up it was about survival. and now it's more about like, we have the leisure to not think about where's our next  food gonna be? Where's the next place that we're gonna be safe? And I think, um, being able to talk about our feelings and being able to process that these emotions is definitely a privilege that I think that's where the disconnect comes from. 
Where I guess this is like what the generational trauma. Mm-hmm. . And I feel like a lot of  
Interviewer: Korean families have probably go through that, where it's  
Interviewee: like they're all in this like unhealthy re relationship of like  
Interviewer: not speaking their  
mind.  
Interviewee: Mm-hmm. . And I remember my dad having this like really tough year. And he ended up like being fired from his job. 
And he kept it from us from like, for two months. And then he only  told us about it when he got rehired. Wow. He was   like, I am the head of the family. I didn't want to fail you. And that was so like frustrating for me to hear.  what, what could we have done? Like I'm a high schooler, my brother's also a high schooler, middle schooler,   maybe And it's like, how can we support him?  Like we couldn't have done that. But then I'm thinking,  
Interviewee: yeah, we could have, like, that's such a heavy emotional burden   that for like one person to   take. And it's like, just because you're the head of the family doesn't necessarily  
Interviewer: mean that like, if you are dead, what are we gonna do? 
Like, are you saying that we're useless without you?  
Interviewee: Like, and I think there's some, some something to be said about how, you know, my. Dad has said this, and  
Interviewer: I noticed my grandma also saying this, at one point, they  
Interviewee: both said that if they're ever like super sick to  
Interviewer: just let them die, and not to like, leave them  
Interviewee: in like any state of like vegetable or like, you know, if  
Interviewer: they're broken, just kill them off or  
Interviewee: something like that. 
Mm-hmm. . Um, and it's like, why are you, you know, putting yourself in a or like, I think there's like something about them trying to be heroes. Hmm. Or like, they don't wanna be a burden. I guess maybe that's, that's it. Um, and I just remember one time my grandma and I were just like, uh, lying on the couch. And this was like before, um,  
Interviewer: the whole, uh, hospitalization  
Interviewee: thing happened. 
Um, and sh we were just like literally chilling on the couch. And then she goes, you know, if I am like something happens to me like, Like, basically she's like, dnr, do not resuscitate me. And I was likeit of course. Like hearing that. I think in general you're just like, oh no, like we  want to keep you alive. 
Like, why would you say  
Interviewee: that? But then over the years and over the months, that's always, that's ha That has been something that I've been like constantly thinking about and I understand where she's coming from. I understand that.  
Interviewer: Like she doesn't want to be a burden. She wants  
Interviewee: us to be happy. And I think like a lot of the times, like especially, I don't know, in like  
Interviewer: when it comes to death, um, a lot of the times, um, we want to hold on, but in reality, like we keep people alive because like for us, not for them. 
Hmm. And  
Interviewee: I think like  
Interviewer: that's what my grandma was, I think trying to like hint towards, um, . Is your grandma still around? Yeah. Yeah. In Korea or  
Interviewee: No, she's here with us. Okay. Yeah. So, um, I, when we moved when I was seven, so we used to be close to  
Interviewer: my dad's sister, my aunt, we lived together because, um, she,  
Interviewee: she had a husband, but  
Interviewer: then the husband basically like, I don't know what happened then, but they got divorced and then she, she, I think she was starting a business or something, but ended up giving it all to the husband. 
Hmm. And then she had two kids, and then the two kids are basically like under her custody and then they started living with us  
Interviewee: and  
Interviewer: we definitely like downgrade it to like our living situation. Mm-hmm. , which I liked because I was like, more people. The merrier the, the ,  
Interviewee: the more the merrier. Okay, there you go. 
Yeah. Um, and then, so. . Uh, yeah. And basically, but then turns out my aunt, uh, like swindled my dad after, um, so my mom and my dad started like investing, um, when they had me and my brother, because they were like making substantial amount of money and they were like, oh, you know, maybe we can use this money for like, you know, when later down the line for my grandma to like, come move with us or something like that. 
But then my aunt ended up taking the money and like disappearing. Wow. I mean, she's back, but she keeps in contact with my grandma. Um, and my dad was going to like, pursue that and like, you know, fight her for the money, but then he decided not to  
Interviewer: because of my grandma, he didn't want to.  
Interviewee: Mm-hmm. , uh, he like, you know, her kids are fighting, right? 
Yeah. Um, is it just him and his sister? Yeah. So apparent they have like a seven year gap and apparently, There's so much in my dad's lap that I was just like, what the fuck? So he had two other sisters. So this was like when he was like two years old and  
Interviewer: his older, or like the now sister was, um, like seven or eight or something like that. 
And then he apparently  
Interviewee: had two other sisters in between, but there was a fire when  
Interviewer: he was two years old. And  
Interviewee: then my  
Interviewer: grandma, uh, put him on hi her back and then jumped off a two-story building.  
Interviewee: Wow. Yeah. And apparently after that fire, the two sisters went missing. And then according to my grandma, they were very pretty and she was thinking that maybe like someone did the fire  
Interviewer: to kidnap them. 
Wow. It's very  
Interviewee: like, what the fuck? And I found this out when I was in like freshman year or like eighth grade, and I was  
Interviewer: like, hold on. You had two sisters. My dad. From your dad or from  
Interviewee: your grandma? From my dad. . Wow. Yeah. And then, um, so my dad actually ended up having to be hospitalized a lot when he was like  two or three. Uh, and he almost like died apparently because, so back in, um, like  the traditional Korean like houses, they basically heated the floor   with these circular heating things. I don't know what exactly they are, but they're very toxic, so you don't  want to leave it on for a very long amount of time because they will  create fumes. 
Okay. And then my dad being like seven or five or whatever age he was, he left that on, passed the fuck out. And then my grandma came back from work and saw him just like, like passed out and they were like, You know, in full blown panic, the neighbors came and was like, Hey, your kids like passed out. They were like splashing water on him and took him to a hospital and he like ended up being fine. But just a lot of things that like went on in my dad's life that I   am very like, wow, you are coming from a very different place   than I am. And so I think a lot of the times, um, when we try to talk to my dad about like, Hey, can you not be like that? Or like, can you not say those things? It hurts my feelings. 
He'll be like, you softy you, you're snowflake back in my days. You know, like the classic like, um, but of course like we understand him, but like we always want, he always thinks it's like us versus him, that everyone's up against him. And I think that's something like we're always like, struggling with and I have a feeling that's like that for a lot of families, um, where it's like, , they have their mindsets that they  
Interviewer: like know to be true. 
This is how they survived until here. So it's like, why change it? No, thank you. excuse again. Yeah. Yeah. Do you feel closer to your dad now? Or like, have you, it sounds like you've had your struggles. Um,  
Interviewee: I guess so technically,  
Interviewer: because I remember at a certain point I closed off to him. Mm-hmm. because  
Interviewee: he he would have. 
Okay. So in like, when we were younger, he tried to explain  
Interviewer: to us why we're getting punished for certain things, which I think was like a very good way of, um, you know, trying to parent, because I know he grew up with his dad just basically beating him without real rhyme or reason and like having really strict rules that didn't really make sense. 
For example, like he said that, um, . My grandpa wouldn't let him, wouldn't let anyone get up unless he was done with his meal. Hmm. The grandpa and, or like he, you can't start the meal  
Interviewee: without him and certain things like that. And so, um, yeah,  
Interviewer: my dad wanted to make sure that like, we understood why we were getting punished and then at a certain age he was like, I'm just gonna talk to you guys, like people. 
Um, but you know, like of course  
Interviewee: like that was a very good, I guess start, but the execution was kind of poor in the sense that, um, he would  
Interviewer: basically do like these 40 minute lectures, but he would want you to contribute at the same time. He doesn't want to hear your opinion .  
Interviewee: So it was like, why don't you speak like, I'm not punishing  
Interviewer: you, I just wanna have a conversation. 
Then you speak your mind and then he says it's wrong.  
Interviewee: So,  
Interviewer: At that point I was like, fuck this. And then I closed myself  
Interviewee: off and then I went to college and  
Interviewer: I was living outside of, um, my home, even though it was like 15 minutes away. I was really like, glad to be out of there. Mm-hmm. . Um,  
Interviewee: and then I remember coming back one  
Interviewer: summer and basically like blew up, um, and started yelling at him. 
And then he started yelling back and screaming. And he just basically like, he stormed outta the house and I was like a mess. And then I remember writing this like one letter all in Korean and then like when he came back home, I like g it to him. And then like, we, like made up. But of course, like one fight isn't gonna fix years of how he was raised and how I was raised. 
Um,  
Interviewee: and I  
Interviewer: definitely see it happening to my brother now. He's moved out, which I think. Is probably like for the best. Um, but he's struggling  
Interviewee: a lot more, um, because I think, like my dad treats him in a different way in  
Interviewer: the sense that like, a man should act this way or that way. Cuz it's like that is the traditional, of course,  
Interviewee: like even now, I think Korean,  
Interviewer: um, attitude towards like male and female are still, they're like, oh, men should always like, do X or do this. 
Um, even, even  
Interviewee: though Korea's getting a little bit more progressive, like  
Interviewer: definitely like the word feminism is very like taboo in Korea in the sense that like, , they already associate it as like fem Nazi in, you know, like how Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Like the extremists, like they always think that feminism itself is like bad. 
Interesting.  
Interviewee: Yeah. And so  
Interviewer: I think there was like one K-Pop idol who basically said, or like, was reading a book about feminism, and all of her fans were like, are you kidding me? Like, I think it was mostly male. Sure. That probably said that. But, um, yeah, so, uh,  
Interviewee: my brother is, I can definitely see. He also has, he was finally diagnosed, like  
Interviewer: recently for adhd. 
Mm-hmm. . And a lot of the problems when he was growing up, I think attributed to adhd. Like, he was very forgetful. He was all over the place. He was a very talkative person and very extroverted. And he would always like to quote my dad, like, blurt without thinking. Um, and I, I, I think there was a lot of, Um, trauma in that sense for my brother, I like, he's still healing  
Interviewee: in that sense. 
And, um,  he just realized that a lot of the things that he did, that my dad got mad at him about could have been solved if he was on medication earlier or like he knew that this was a condition and it wasn't his control to like act a certain way. Mm-hmm. . Um, yeah. Yeah. 
Interviewer: 

Does your brother speak any or speak Korean to the same extent that you do? 
Interviewee: 
No, definitely not.  
Uh, but I would say like, he can read some, like if my mom  sends him a text, he can like somehow figure it out. He talks to my grandma. She only speaks Korean, so, um, I, I mean definitely he like, like sometimes he made my grandma take an M B t I test, like the personality test. Oh. And it was kind of funny because he was trying to. 
I know there's a Korean version of that, but then he was reading the English version, but like trying to translate in his broken Korean. Huh. And like, I was upstairs, I remember, and my grandma was like, and my brother is like downstairs being like, when you have a long hard week, do you want to party with your friends or stay at home? 
And I was  
Interviewee: like, what are you asking her? And first of all,  
Interviewer: like, this is not really relevant to how like, you know, she lives day to day today. And it is just really funny to sometimes see him interact. I think there's a level of, um, you know, he can't like really reach my grandma because of the language barrier. 
Um, but coming back to the food thing, I think food definitely helps kind of gap, bridge that gap. Mm-hmm. , um, like my grandma knows what Juwan likes and that's when she makes things for him. And, um, it, it's just like nice to see her excited to, you know, connect with her grandson in a way that's not language. 
Mm-hmm. . Yeah. Yeah. Do you feel closer to her now than you did before? No.  
Interviewee: No. I think, so this is also kind of like something I talked  
Interviewer: about in the medium memory survey. This is where my like dumping came from. I don't know if it's like trauma dumping, but it's like just  
Interviewee: emotion dumping. Sure. Well, it's not emotion dumping, but like background dumping. 
Um, basically I, my grandma was like my primary  
Interviewer: caretaker when I, until I was like seven when I was in Korea. Well, at  
Interviewee: least to my knowledge, because my mom worked nights and my dad was overseas and it was kind of funny cuz my dad would send like tapes of  
Interviewer: like video VHS tapes of like American shows. So it was like Dora,  
Interviewee: there was. 
SpongeBob. And then I feel like there was one more break. I can't remember. And then he also sent like Barbie dolls. Hmm. And they were named Jenny, so I was like, you're really excited. Oh, huh. Um, yeah. And so, oh, I think there was Barney  
Interviewer: maybe in the video.  
Interviewee: Oh yeah. Yeah. Um, anyway, so my grandma was like the main caretaker, and I remember my mom saying something along the lines of like, she was like really upset when I was a baby that like,  
Interviewer: when she held me, I would cry, but then when my grandma held me, she wouldn't. 
And that was like a big stressor  
Interviewee: for my mom. And I think she grew up. So her  
Interviewer: mom your your, your mom's mom? My, yeah. Yeah, my mom's mom. Yeah. My mom's mom's side grandma.  
Interviewee: Um, I think she had a lot of like mental illnesses or issues, um, that I  
Interviewer: personally. Don't know where to place some or like understand  
Interviewee: it. Um, she, like, it was hard for her to take care of herself. 
Um, and she met my grandpa, I think through like, like, you know, one of those  
Interviewer: You are together? No, not necessarily like or age  
Interviewee: marriage. Okay. Yeah. And so, um, my grandpa remarried or  
Interviewer: divorced my grandma and then  
Interviewee: remarried. And I think my mom kind of grew up  
Interviewer: being like, I don't like my  
Interviewee: family. Mm. And she had a sister but her, or I guess my aunt, um, she also has like lowkey feel like she has mental disability,  
Interviewer: but I'm not sure like what it is  
Interviewee: to pinpoint. 
Um, but yeah, I think like that was like really tough for my mom because that's, Her older sister, but she was basically taking care of her mom and her older sister. And I think my mom  
Interviewer: kind of became this person who was like, I don't like people, I don't, I like, don't like being touched. I don't like  
Interviewee: people talking to me. 
Or like, she just didn't, she liked being a loner. Mm-hmm. In that sense. Um, so I think like for  
Interviewer: her to have a family with  
Interviewee: my dad, who, my dad is always like gung ho about like, I want a family. I wanna have a family. And it's like, he grew up without like a really good father figure. And he passed away when he was like in high school or something like that. 
And he was abusive. And so he was like, I'm gonna make my own family and I'm gonna make  
Interviewer: a family that like, is like precious  
Interviewee: to me and is a family. So I think in a sense he was very like,  
Interviewer: I like want to create my  
Interviewee: own family, but I think there's a sense of like, in Korean culture, blood related means family over, you know, where I feel like, I'm not sure if this is necessarily true, but the sentiment I get  in America is more like you can create your own family. 
And just because you're not,  just because you're not blood rated doesn't  mean that you're not family. Mm-hmm. , like, you can choose your family and you don't have to accept the people that are blood  
Interviewee: related to you. And I think that was also a fascinating thing for me to learn when  
Interviewer: I met Matt actually.  
Interviewee: Oh yeah. 
So I was always like, you should be like, you know, love your, every one of your family and your extended family and whatever, because,  
Interviewer: um, like that's what I've been raised with my Korean background. Um,  
Interviewee: but for him it was like, no, I, you need to earn my respect. Mm-hmm. and I, at first I was like,  
Interviewer: that's so weird. 
I don't understand it. But then I came  
Interviewee: to, You know, realize that, like, I started to agree in the sense that why do people who,  
Interviewer: you know, I might have never met, or, you know, I don't get along with, I have to accept them for who they are because I'm blood related. Like, Hmm. My aunt  
Interviewee: basically swindling my, my dad, and like, I never really liked her. 
I  
Interviewer: just, okay, this is like a tmi. But then I, like, when I was a  
Interviewee: baby or like really young, I shook  
Interviewer: my pants. Sure. And then,  
Interviewee: so I was like, I told my aunt and I was like crying to, and I think she was the only one in the apartment. And I was like,  
Interviewer: yo, aunt, I like shipped my pants. I don't know what to do.  
Interviewee: And then she's like, oh, ew. 
Like disgusting, like, go put it in the laundry, or something like that. And I didn't feel cared for. Right. Um, and so I  
Interviewer: already, I like Al always hated that woman, but ,  
Interviewee: she really liked my brother because he was a man. Or like a boy, and she had two daughters. And I was like,  
Interviewer: I don't get good vibes from this lady. 
And so, I  
Interviewee: mean, anyways, uh,  
Interviewer: what were you talking about? I, I have a separate question. I have a different question. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Which is, you, you mentioned not be, not feeling cared for mm-hmm. by this aunt. Mm-hmm. . Are there things today that make you feel cared for, that like you associate with your Korean background? 
Like, it sounds like food. Mm-hmm. food is a big tie for you. Um, but like, let's say, have you met like other Korean American friends here or there, things that like, feel homey to you or feel like they tie you to that? That's a very vague  
Interviewee: question. I'm sorry. No, no, no. I think, you know, interestingly, when it comes to my friends, the  
Interviewer: language is what makes me feel more comfortable with them. 
Mm. Or like homey in that sense. Um, food because we can't, either of us can't cook shit .  
Interviewee: Um, but it's like, maybe it's like being able to share the same kind of taste and being able to,  
Interviewer: um, relate like with the Korean language. Mm-hmm. , maybe that gives it a connection in some way.  
Interviewee: Um, cuz it's like, I, I always had this like excitement for seeing other  
Interviewer: Koreans just because, well first of all, I grew up in, um, California, Oklahoma, Virginia,  
Interviewee: California. 
It was a little bit more diverse,  
Interviewer: but I still think there was like less Koreans, uh, compared to now. Um, and Oklahoma, like Uck, middle of nowhere. And then  
Interviewee: Virginia is definitely very white. And so every  
Interviewer: time I saw a Korean person I would get super excited and I'd be like, oh my God, mom. I think like they just spoke Korean, like, let's go say hi. 
Mm-hmm. . Um, and so I think I always have. Is like fascination and like want to be around other Koreans.  
Interviewee: Um, and I'm not sure like what exactly it is. I just always thought like, oh, it would be so cool cuz to like grow up in Korea. Um, because I think like they have a different type of comradery. 
Friendship. Yes. Yeah, there you go. Um, because, you know, they do  hours of school and crams school and like they're  
Interviewee: with like their classmates for a very long period of time. And I, my, so there's this like,   um, name called . I'll be honest, I don't know what that means, but Chingu means friend. Mm-hmm. . But I think it just means like Deskmate or like school friend. 
Interviewee: and my mom would tell me about like, it's a definitely a different type of friendship, huh. And. . I think it's less about, like, I wonder if it's less about your interest, but like, just the fact that you're near this one person for a long period of time that you get to like form this bond, then you start sharing interests and  
Interviewee: then you just, it's like different  
Interviewer: from like having college friends where like in high  
Interviewee: school I feel like you, elementary  
Interviewer: school, middle school, high school, you can still go to the same schools cuz it's based on like area and like Korea's relatively small. 
So like people don't move around. Sure. Um, and I wanted that in a way. Like, I remember when I was like younger, I was like thinking that I wish I could have, you know, grown up in Korea and had like Korean friends where I could relate a little bit more to and like look  
Interviewee: the same and have maybe the same interests and like speak the same language. 
Um, but I don't know now , maybe it's because I'm older and my brother and I always talk about it and we  
Interviewer: joke the fact that like if we were in Korea, we would've  
Interviewee: struggled a lot. and we would've probably like, it's a  
Interviewer: bad joke, poor taste, but we said we, we  
Interviewee: keep saying like we would've killed ourselves just because it just seems like who we are now  
Interviewer: does not fit into like anything Korean. 
I feel like, um,  
Interviewee: I don't think we would have  
Interviewer: been okay in terms of like dealing with the  
Interviewee: pressures of school. Um, maybe we also see that like our Korean friendships, you don't have  
Interviewer: a lot of like, Korean, Korean friends. Um, so maybe we wouldn't have  
Interviewee: gotten along with them. Mm-hmm. . And maybe it's because we, I identify more with the Americanness of ourselves that  
Interviewer: now at our ages we can look back and be like, we would not have fit in. 
Interviewee: Mm. But I wonder if that's because of like this, you know, culture that we have built  
Interviewer: on our own through the like American and balancing koreanness with it. Right. Do you seek any either. Korean American communities or Korean American communities for  
Interviewee: yourself? I used to actually in undergrad, but then I realized I don't like the type. 
Okay. So like, I, I think this is also, this is very anecdotal, um, but the people that, um, like I mentioned that come to the US are like, I think my parents' friends got hurt by like, okay, so there's like a big Korean church community and a lot of the times that's how people meet, um, other Koreans, whether or not you're religious. 
It's more about the community aspect. Mm-hmm. and basically, um, my parents' friends were alienated and isolated because they  
Interviewer: like to gossip and talk shit a lot of the times behind other people's back. The, the church likes to, or your parents and their friends?  
Interviewee: The church. The church, okay. Yeah. And they basically alienated this like one family, and then we decided to also lead. 
Um, but turns out those family were also a piece of shit. And then basically like, uh, they basically thought that my parents were gonna ask  
Interviewer: them for money and so started cutting my parents off.  
Interviewee: Huh? I don't, I don't actually know, like a lot about  
Interviewer: how my parents dealt with a lot of things. Um, of course they didn't make a lot of like great  
Interviewee: finance financial decisions, but at the same time, like, um, of course I'm gonna like side with them because they're my parents. 
Um, yeah. But anyways, uh, I actually talked to this one Korean, like friend who moved to the US in high school her freshman year. Uh, and so she's like more Korean, I  
Interviewer: feel like, than  
Interviewee: American. And um, she was talking about how like a lot of the people in Korea  
Interviewer: actually don't gossip like this, like huh, in this level  
Interviewee: of toxicity. 
And she was like, I wonder if they're just so bored with their lives here. Like cuz a lot of the, um, the moms, they don't have jobs like raising their kids is the job. Mm-hmm. . And, uh,  
Interviewer: they have nothing else to do. So what are they gonna do? Talk shit about other people's  
Interviewee: kids. Um, and so I wonder if like that is, 
Interviewer: what are we talking about? What is the question in the communities? I wonder if that's maybe the reason you don't reach out to or  
Interviewee: Oh, yes, yes. Yeah. So basically, so it was, it's like weird because I had this like fascination of like being in a Korean community and wanting koreanness, but then realizing these like growing, like as I'm  
Interviewer: getting  
Interviewee: older and my parents telling me these things. 
And also in, um, undergrad I joined like a Korean American Student Association. They also started talking shit. Hmm. And not about me, but about my friend. And basically she's really pretty. And all these guys started to ask her out. Hmm. And of course she said no. And then they started talking shit about her. 
Hmm. And even the girls started getting like jealous of her. And like, you know, I think there is just like one girl that she went to high school with. And then, um, apparently like something happened in high school,  
Interviewer: but like, you know, maybe it was like a misunderstanding and it was like a guy liking her, but then the guy like talking shit or whatever. 
And then  
Interviewee: that girl also started talking shit to other people about her. Hmm. And so it was like this constant toxicity that like, personally hasn't  
Interviewer: affected me, but I've seen it happen. And it was just  
Interviewee: very like, uh, what's the word? Not frustrating, but like upsetting to see. And I even You associate that with the Korean? 
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. And I think like, maybe it comes from a lot of like, , the Korean, I don't know if it's like a Korean thing, but I just notices a lot in like passive aggressiveness. Mm-hmm. and not being able to speak their mind or like, you know, confronting people. And just like, cuz like for me, at least at this point in my life, I say that like, if I'm gonna talk shit about someone,  
Interviewer: I'm okay saying that to their face. 
Like, if they ever confront me about it, I  
Interviewee: would be like, oh yeah. Like I totally think that you were in the wrong. Huh. And I think I'm at a, at a point in my life where I am Okay. Like confronting the person and being like,  
Interviewer: yes, I don't  
Interviewee: like you. Hmm. But of course, not to an extent where it's like detrimental, but Sure. 
Um, I think a lot of the times in Korean culture you just, everyone just talks shit and it's just like this like toxic cycle where nobody really talks about  
Interviewer: it and then when confronted it's like,  
Interviewee: oh,  
Interviewer: like gaslighting.  
Interviewee: Hmm. And so, yeah, I think. . Uh, there are some friends that I met in high school and like one or  
Interviewer: two friends in undergrad that I still keep in  
Interviewee: contact with, and they are more Korean. 
I, I would say, and I think they are more, not necessarily because they're Korean, that I am like connected with them, but then more because like we ended up going through the same, um, things or maybe just we have similar interests or it's just like our personalities match. So it just, I wonder if it  
Interviewer: has to do with the koreanness itself. 
Mm-hmm. . Um, but I  
Interviewee: still appreciate the fact my entryway to getting to know them was the koreanness. Mm-hmm. . And these are some of the friendships that I still have with these people are like one of the friendships that I really hold dear. Um, and yeah. Yeah. Yeah. 
Interviewer: Wow. Do you ever speak in Korean with them or is it mostly English?  
Interviewee: Uh, mostly English was the person who came  
Interviewer: to America when she was in high school.  
Interviewee: Um, but Korean to the one that I met in undergrad who's living in Korea right now. Hmm. Um, just because I like practicing the Korean.  
Interviewer: Nice. Yeah. Would you ever go back to Korea for an extended  
Interviewee: period of time? 
I don't know. I mean, I think I, when I was back there, oh, to answer your other question about my grandma  
Interviewer: and my close with her Oh yeah. .  
Interviewee: So like, yeah. Um, when I was seven I was like really close to her and then I moved to America. I just remember being at the airport, like, so my eyes out. Mm-hmm. And um, like my dad was like carrying me away and then I was just like,  
Interviewer: I had a doll with me. 
And then I see like my, uh,  
Interviewee: grandmother and. , uh, I think it was like hard for me to let go at that time cuz like, I, I think that to me, I can't remember exact points where I  
Interviewer: felt like my, I, I connected well with my grandma, but there are like certain emotions that I remember being like, really connected with my grandma. 
Interviewee: Um, so, uh, she visited like once or twice, um, in like elementary  
Interviewer: school, maybe like  
Interviewee: once in middle school. Um, but it was like very brief and not a long period of time. And it of course was different every time cuz it was this person that I felt like  
Interviewer: was my guardian right. And is no longer  
Interviewee: one. And I think when I graduated high school, I decided to go to Korea for like a month or two, um, on a solo trip. 
Uh, and then Oh, okay. Yeah, yeah. I stayed with my grandma and my aunt at that time. And I, I feel like I might have mentioned this before, but like I had this, um, need to, or like I, it was like going to Disneyland for me and it was like, kind of like, oh my God, I'm so excited to go to Korea, even  
Interviewer: though I was there like four years ago because of  
Interviewee: my, um, other grandma. 
But it was like I was seeing it again, um, or like expecting Korea to be the same as when I saw it when I was seven years old. Um, and so it was this weird dynamic where I realized that when I was,  
Interviewer: um, like at home with my grandma,  
Interviewee: I'd be like, grandma, I'm hungry, expecting her to make me food. And then my cousin was like, bitch, why don't you make your own food? 
Like, why are you making grandma make you like you food? And then I realized that I was wanting this  
Interviewer: like reconnect of like being taken care of by my  
Interviewee: grandma. And I am now at this age where I should be taking care of my grandma, but. , it feels like I had, like  
Interviewer: something's been taken away and there's like this huge gap. 
Interviewee: And I think when she moved with us, um, to Korea for like a few weeks, there was like some special  moments for me where it felt like I was bonding with my  grandma a lot. Just maybe because like it, we were the only two who experienced like those specific past like months. Um, sure. And so I just remember like climbing   into her bed, uh, like when we couldn't sleep because of jet flag,   and then we would just like play, um, this like traditional Korean card game. 
Um, and then we would just like lie down next to each other and she would just like, talk about random things and then I would just like pass out next to her . And it, it was like in that moment I felt like it was back, but in a different way. But then I went to college right soon after. and then I was like barely home and I think I started to feel a distance again. 
And then I started to have this like really  
Interviewer: big fear of losing my grandma. Mm-hmm. .  
Interviewee: Um, so ever since I graduated college, I ended up going to the Bay Area and it was like a slow move, like a soft launch of me going into the Bay Area because my  
Interviewer: dad was like, you don't have a job, you don't have like a plan. 
Like, why are you going to live with Matt and  
Interviewee: like you're living with him without like, you know, you're not married and all that jazz. And I think I was like, oh, I'm just visiting him and then just do like a one-way ticket. Um, and then I just remember being like very worried in those times that what if I  
Interviewer: lose my grandma and I haven't been there for her. 
Mm.  
Interviewee: And a lot of the moments were like that and, um, yeah. And. It, it's like every time I was back at home, I, it's not like I make myself do anything or like, it's not like I try to  
Interviewer: connect with her like on a different way or like, you know, make a big effort to, um, hang out with her. Mm-hmm. .  
Interviewee: Uh, but it's like when I'm away, I'm like, I would do this, this, and this. 
Like, I'm not with her. Like, I could be doing this. Mm. And it, it just felt this like weird anxiety when I was like away from her. And then I think this for me, I think it might, maybe it was like in, when I actually talked to Matt about this, like  
Interviewer: in the beginning  
Interviewee: of the semester where he was saying  
Interviewer: that like, maybe it's not necessarily like you have to create this relationship or bond like. 
you can just accept it for what it is. And this kind of comes back to the Americanness that he has, where it's like, cuz I, I think it reminds me of like the blood relation versus like non-blood relation because it's kind of like, um, you don't have  
Interviewee: to feel like, like you can just accept something because you like it, not because you need it to be a certain way. 
And blood relation is kind of like that, where it's like, it is your dad because you're blood related, like why don't you love him? And you have to be in this kind of relationship with this person. But it's kind of like his mindset of the Americanness is showing where it's like, oh, you know, just enjoy your time with her and like be  
Interviewer: okay with the fact that like this type of connection is also acceptable. 
Like you don't have to put them in a specific category to check all the boxes. Um,  
Interviewee: yeah. Yeah. . So in the sense of like, am I close with my grandma now? Um, not as much as when I was younger, maybe  
Interviewer: Right. From at least my memory  
Interviewee: because the emotions aren't as strong. I, I feel like, or like from, I remember and I still appreciate her being around and the little moments that I've created with her. 
And I, like recently I started getting into like nail painting. Mm-hmm. and I decided to share that with my grandma. Mm-hmm. . And then during that time when I was like painting her nails this time when I was back, we just started talking. And sometimes like I was trying to force my way into knowing her better, but maybe I wasn't understanding that maybe this is like a way, like a trauma for her to recall events of her past life. 
Um, and so, Like when I was just painting her nails, it came up more organically where she was like more comfortable in talking about like things in her past. And like, I just remember being in a restaurant and I, I just like wanted to talk to my grandma better and I was like, what is the happiest moment in your life and was the saddest moment in your life? 
Like, just straight up. And I was like that, like looking back on that, I was like, that is such a  
Interviewer: terrible question to just like drop,  
Interviewee: I feel like. And she was like, I've had a lot of sad moments in my life, but I know the happiest is that now I'm like with my family and like, I  
Interviewer: have you guys and I have like my own people. 
Right. Yeah. I'm gonna drop that question on you sometime when we're at dinner. Like, what's, what's this thing? .  
Interviewee: And then you just see me do like the, like you see  
Interviewer: flashback in my eyes. . Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. You mentioned earlier like if you were like in the case that you were to have kids in the future, you'd want to pass on like. 
Speaking Korean. Yeah. To them. Are there other things that you'd want to pass on? Just thinking about like, you know, the, you men you also talked about earlier, uh, the, the kind of blood heritage or blood memory mm-hmm. Yeah. Of like your, your great grandma mm-hmm. and the memory of that person, even though you don't have that memory of the person. 
Like what is, what, what draws the line for you down the path of this, of this family? I guess  
Interviewee: maybe  
Interviewer: right now, maybe I'll mom change my mind later. Sure. And sure. Maybe it's more, it will be important to be able to tell my grandma's story to my kids and my mom's story to my kids. But I also see it like my, the way I have formed my opinions and the way I make food and the way I speak, the way I. 
dress? No, maybe not that, but ,  
Interviewee: the way I choose certain things and I wonder if that also comes from  
Interviewer: a history of my mom and my grandma, and that's okay to pass. Like those are things that I can pass on and accept that like I am taking a piece of them and passing  
Interviewee: it on in that sense. And maybe it's okay that  
Interviewer: it doesn't have to be a physical thing that has to be passed on or like a, not necessarily physical, but like a more solid thing that needs to be passed on. 
Um, yeah, I think, I don't know, maybe a lot of my healing has to do with like,  
Interviewee: is like accepting things are okay for what they are, rather than wanting them to be a certain way. Of course, I think there are certain things that in life. , at least for me, this, this is my welcome to my life's philosophy, . But it's like there are certain things in my life that I can change and there are certain things in my life that I can't change. 
And the point of my life is to be able to distinguish the two and understand where to, you know, make the decisions to make a change or make the decisions to accept for what they are. And I always hated the idea of like, oh, just you gotta accept yourself. You gotta love yourself. Because I just hated the idea of like, yo,  
Interviewer: like I have to accept this for this thing  
Interviewee: that I absolutely hate. 
But then I, when I started to internalize it more, I started to understand like, it's okay to be a little bit  
Interviewer: messed up in a way. Cuz that's what makes that, that. And  
Interviewee: like, I. of course. Like I would want something to be, everyone wants something to be the way they  
Interviewer: want it to  
Interviewee: be, but maybe the beauty of it is that there is little nuances  
Interviewer: that change and make up something to be something else. 
Cuz what if, if  
Interviewee: everything was the same, there wouldn't be a plus to it. Okay. The sound. Okay. That's starting to go  
Interviewer: into a cliche way, but you get the point. I get the point. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Anyway, I've kept you here for like over an hour,  
Interviewee: you know? Is this what therapy is like? . Have you ever been to therapy? 
No, I haven't. No. Yeah, I should. I've been meaning to, but then at the same time I'm just, I don't know what's like, keeping me back. Mm-hmm. It could be time,  
Interviewer: it could be like I, I'm afraid to like open up, maybe it's not  
Interviewee: fear necessarily,  
Interviewer: but it's like the discomfort of like looking for  
Interviewee: the person  
Interviewer: to open up what sucks. 
Yeah. Yeah. It took me four tries. Oh wow. and also ass expensive as fuck, I'm not gonna fly. Mm-hmm. Hmm. . It's nice though. But yeah. Any, any last thoughts before we wrap up? Things that stand  
Interviewee: out to you? No, but I think I appreciate this conversation in a sense because it's like making me think about my  
Interviewer: koreanness in a way that, you know, when people ask me like, what are you, I still like answer sometimes like Korean, like, it's like, where are you from? 
And sometimes I forget about the like whole thing about, oh, it's racist to ask like, you know, where are you from? Or where are your parents  
Interviewee: from? And like, sometimes I kind of say it proudly that I'm like Korean. Um, and so it's nice  
Interviewer: to have this like talk where like I'm reevaluating or just evaluating like what it means to me and like what my cultural background is, or like what does heritage mean to me? 
Yeah. Yeah. Thanks. Fucking sick .  
Interviewee: No, I really, thanks  
Interviewer: for, thanks for talking. Yeah, no, like, I really listening appreciate your perspective on this and like, it's really interesting to hear, it's really interesting to hear like this, this distance from like, people who are currently living in Korea who have a, a different experience of that culture and also saying like, and these other things that I bring along with me. 
Yeah. Yeah. Still make me Korean still, like mm-hmm. or make you, make you Korean , still make you Korean, still make you like, feel very at home in that term. Mm-hmm. . Mm-hmm. . Um, yeah. 
Have you interviewed other people yet? I've interviewed, um, AAN Antwan. Hmm. And I'm interviewing Josephine and, um, Julia, so mm-hmm. . I'm so interested into hearing some of their backgrounds, so Yeah. Yeah. And then they're all very happy to talk about it. Mm-hmm. . Um, but it's been really fascinating cuz like you, so far I've talked to you, Anan, Anine all moved here from, I'm gonna say like countries of origin. 
Mm-hmm. , right? Mm-hmm. , um, big quotation marks. Um, and Josephine also, but Julie was born here. Mm-hmm. . And so I'm kind of interested in what that's gonna look like or what that difference, like Josephine was born here. Josephine was born in Taiwan. Uh, Julia was born here. Oh, okay. Right. Um, and just there's a really interesting, like, I feel like everybody's, everybody so far has been like, oh man, the fucking language , or like, language and food always come up. 
Mm-hmm. . But for some people there's more ritual and for some people, . Like, I don't, I hearing about, um, the taste right thing, not just like taste of food, but like taste in clothing, taste in makeup, taste in furnishings. Right, right. That all like leaning  
Interviewee: into this direction. Mm-hmm. .  
Interviewer: Yeah. That's really fascinating. 
Mm-hmm. and like, I had never thought about that so much. Mm-hmm. ,  
Interviewee: um,  
Interviewer: okay. Yeah. Yeah. Really this thesis is just me being like, tell me I'm not alone and feeling like I'm not a good enough Asian person. that's always is. Right.  
Interviewee: No, but I think this will be really interesting. I, I'm curious  
Interviewer: as to well, where you'll take it. 
Yeah. I don't know yet, but I, I don't know, but it's, it's exciting if anything, like I really love having these conversations and getting to hear people talk about it cuz it's like, ugh. Like it's good. Mm-hmm. and it's bad and it hurts and it's, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah,  
Interviewee: yeah. I was talking to Kat  
Interviewer: about like That's a good one to talk to. 
I mean, she's a good one. .  
Interviewee: Um,  
Interviewer: I think she was like born here. Mm-hmm. . Um, but I think we were talking about how like at ITP you don't really, we don't really, like, it's  
Interviewee: hard to make deeper friendships. Hmm.  
Interviewer: And this is a kind of a tan tangent, but Sure. Um, like a lot of times, or like, apparently Armand said this and  
Interviewee: he's very like, cynical in the way he thinks. 
I think. And I personally don't know  
Interviewer: if like she wanted, she was okay sharing this, but I feel comfortable sharing it to you and we'll just never talk about it. Um, I can also pause the recording if you Oh, yeah. Yeah.