 
Interviewer: Okay, we're just gonna sit here. 
Hello. Thanks for getting interviewed for my thesis. You don't have to talk super loudly. It's actually pretty good. I can put it closer if that's Yeah. Useful. Put it right here. Um, but this'll take as long as it takes. It can be as short as you want it to be. Um, there is no specific questions that I'm aiming. 
So kind of whatever comes up for you, I'd just love to hear that. Okay. Um, so I'm gonna just start with like, what do you consider to be your cultural background and heritage?  
Interviewee: Should I say who I am? Um,  
Interviewer: you can, I'm just gonna note it down. Okay. So that's fine. .  
Interviewee: Okay. , my cultural heritage.  
Interviewer: God,  
Interviewee: I. . I was born and raised in Taiwan and I consider myself a Taiwanese, raised in a traditional Chinese culture, uh, with a lot of sprinkles of Taiwanese culture. 
Um, but up until, I guess when I was 23 and I moved to the States as an international student, um, So I started being immersed in this, in the US culture, uh, primarily like surrounded by people of my own age. Um, uh, many of them are also have also not from the states. Um, and. I, I cannot pinpoint and, and I cannot label what kind of culture that is. 
But I, I guess since I was 20, uh, since 23 until now, it's been like seven or eight years that I'm building my own heritage, culture heritage based on this, based on who I'm surrounded by and my chosen family. Mm-hmm. . Yeah.  
Interviewer: Do so you, do you consider your health today? Like a Chinese, Taiwanese, American or Chinese, Taiwanese or Chinese  
Interviewee: or, I, I am Taiwanese. 
I don't consider myself as a Chinese at all. Uh, largely because of the political conflict between Chinese government and Chinese government. Um, that has been going on throughout my entire life, really. And then since I became an adult, 18, 19, um, I was able to see, like, see this conflicting relationship a lot more clearly and then have the ability to like vote as a, a citizen in Taiwan. 
Mm-hmm. . And that really spoke a lot of, like, I really don't identify myself as a Chinese, even though my parents, my grandparents identify themselves as Chinese. Um,  
Interviewer: Yeah. 
What is your relationship with being Taiwanese and living here in the United States? Hmm.  
Interviewee: Definitely very interesting and a lot of that, um, really do not want to identify with Chinese is heightened. as a foreigner in the States. Mm-hmm. , um, a lot of it becau it being like, I would be perceived as a Chinese and I speak the same language as chin, as Chinese people. 
So for people who are, especially for people who are not Chinese or Taiwanese, they, they're very easy. Just like, put me in the box, put me in the box of. People with Chinese heritage, with like the, and I should, I should know all kind of Chinese culture. I, I get like, uh, people like looked glanced at me in the class when we talked about Chinese stuff. 
When we talked about Chinese food and talked about things like that. And people who has not had conversation with me about how I, how I identify myself would just, oh yeah, you should know cuz it's Chinese stuff, you know? Mm-hmm. . . And in a way, like most of the time I do know those things. I, I can understand Chinese culture very, I guess a lot more clear than obviously non-Chinese speaker that's growing up, learning a lot, and then have no barrier, no language barrier whatsoever. 
Mm-hmm. . Um, but really I was not raised there, so I guess like a lot of times still feel like I, I have this gap. . I do have, I do see a gap between me and other Chinese people. And Chinese people. See, I did that myself. I thought, like, uh, there is a subconscious, um, thought of maybe I'm Chinese. Um,  
Interviewer: how do, how do you feel about that? 
What about, you know, that happening right now? 
Interviewee: Mm. It feels like therapy. . So interesting. , um, I've gotten that  
Interviewer: two or three times. Feel like it feels like therapy, but I'm just curious.  
Interviewee: I  
Interviewer: feel, 
Interviewee: I don't know. I feel surprised that for a long time I keep telling myself I'm, I'm not Chinese. I'm not Chinese. Um, But really like I am so, I'm so immersed in this culture, in Chinese culture, and I'm so, I was so immersed in Chinese culture growing up, and it felt like there was this identity, identity that I cannot get rid of with just like forcing myself to think otherwise. 
Um, Hmm. Yeah. 
And maybe I, I don't have to, maybe it's just, uh, I, I, I still think my, my identity is evolving, uh, especially now being like an immigrant in the States and just like how I place myself in relationship with other people coming from other culture, whether it. closer to my culture or not. Um, it's like shifting in a way. 
Interviewer: What do you mean shifting? Um,  
Interviewee: okay,  
Interviewer: what is that? So  
Interviewee: for example, I feel like I'm shifting away from Taiwanese culture. Hmm. Um, mainly because I'm not with my. . I'm now with my biological family and I'm now with my, I don't have immediate access to like a Taiwanese person. Mm-hmm. , um, like I did in my childhood. 
Right. Like every day I'm interacting with Taiwanese people. Mm-hmm. . But here, no. I may have a few Taiwanese friends who go to the same school and we see each other, like, we don't, we don't even have time to actually. do like a lot of Taiwanese things together, you know, it's just like, yes, I know that person's also Taiwanese. 
That's it. But we are in this, we're in, uh, north American culture. Mm-hmm. , we speak English, we are in an ed, US education system. Mm-hmm. , so everything else is not Taiwanese. So in a way, like I'm solid. I feel like I'm shifting away from a Taiwanese culture, and then whenever I try to, , like, look at the news in Taiwan, talk to people about what's happening in Taiwan. 
There are a lot of things that I don't get it already. Mm-hmm. , uh, I don't follow the trend anymore. Um, the algorithm is kicking me away, kicking me out. It doesn't show me things happening in Taiwan anymore. Oh, interesting. Yeah, and then I'm, I'm using English as my primary language to communicate with most people, uh, who. 
Have this like urgent relationship in my life. I'd say colleagues, uh, school friends, and my, um, my partner who I'm married to, and, uh, just most people in my life, I need to speak English to them, uh, within the American cultural context. Um, so yeah, I feel like I'm, I am out of practice in terms of Taiwanese. 
and I'm solely shifting towards being an American, but not entirely. Um, for example, when I'm in the room with mostly Americans or people who grew up in the, in the states talking, talking about, oh, there's this cartoon we all watched, uh, when we were young. I cannot follow, I I didn't watch these cartoons or, or there was this, math curriculum. 
We all, we all had in high school, in middle school. Mm-hmm. I cannot follow. And that's when I feel like, oh shit, I'm an outsider. Hmm. Even though I can fully understand what you guys are talking about, but I cannot feel this nostalgia. Hmm. This like, oh yes, of course. I cannot feel that. Um, and. That's like more of the interpersonal level of why I feel my, my identity, identity is shifting. 
Um, and in a more like, like a larger sociopolitical level mm-hmm. is that I, um, I cannot vote yet. Um, so I, I don't feel like I fully have a voice. Voice here. . And there is another thing that I'm trying to work on is to like civil, civil engagement outside of voting. Mm-hmm. , like I can do a lot of things even though I cannot vote, uh, to be socially engaged with my community here. 
Um, and for a long time I still feel like, oh, I really don't feel like an outsider. I really don't know how long I'll stay here. And so what's the point of being. , but really like I am a very political person and I care a lot. Even like since I was, when I was in Taiwan, I like went on the street. I went to social movement. 
Wow. Like I did things like that without worrying about being arrested. Uh oh. That's another thing. Like the wor worrying about being arrested is also another obstacle for me to, that I feel that I cannot be involved. Um, Deeply because I worry about being arrested and that might affect my immigration status. 
Yeah. And people will be saying that it's okay. You can be involved in other ways. You're an artist. You can make art that re respond to a political issue or social issue and it doesn't need, need doesn't mean that you need to risk your body, risk your record. Mm-hmm. , you don't, you don't really have to put your body in the front line basically. 
And I'm, I'm chewing on this like suggestions, like yeah, you're right. But in a way I also feel like, um, my younger self would be, would tell me that that is not enough. You need to go down the street and put your body in front of the police. Mm-hmm. Yeah. So that's another, yeah. Do you think you'll ever feel comfortable with that  
Interviewer: here? 
Interviewee: I don't know, but I think one day after I become a US citizen, um, maybe I'll, I'll, I'll be less afraid of doing that. Yeah. They were like, yeah.  
Interviewer: Yeah. They were like, it. 
Also, if you ever need to pause during the interview, like we can definitely do that. 
Interviewee: This is actually really good. This been back, make me feel embraced. You should tell May. Yeah, they would be really happy about that. . Yeah, that's what I wanted. Mm-hmm. this to do. Okay, great.  
Interviewer: Um, I'm gonna change, uh, change directions a little bit. What, what are ways that you feel tied to your identity as Taiwanese? 
Like what are ways that feel connected with that, even though you're here surrounded by non Taiwanese people? 
Interviewee: Um, 
I feel connected by. 
Mm. Okay. So, hmm. If that  
Interviewer: question doesn't work for you, like, feel free to tell me why.  
Interviewee: I'm just trying to figure out how, how do I define connecting connection? Um, is it like a fact about myself that I know, even though it's not an action? For example, I can understand Taiwanese, um, this language and I can understand Mandarin, and that for me is a very Taiwan thing. 
Um, but I. Practicing it. Like what does that mean? Like, I, I haven't really been able to, uh, being able to speak Taiwanese here. Mm-hmm. . Um, so that's, that's one. Um, 
food . Um, I feel like when I'm cooking for myself, um, or when I'm the one who's cooking, um, I definitely. Very comfortably grab something that is, that is like, uh, that is being used in Taiwanese cooking very often. 
Interviewer: So  
Interviewee: I saw space. Mm-hmm. , have you, you heard of that? It's like soy sauce, but not really. They're like sweeter and they're past. and the per, I learned that that is like very specific to Taiwanese cooking. Um, and like chili bean paste that it, those are using uh, like in China as well, but, and sometimes in Korea and Japan I think. 
But I definitely grew up eating a lot less flavor profile. Mm-hmm. and like having, looking at my, looking into my pantry, looking in, in my, looking at my fridge, looking at my. Looking at the cooking wear I have, I have a walk, obviously cuz I need to do stir fry. Um, these are like very, very culturally specific and I haven't really thought about it until now. 
I'm putting it into words. Oh yeah, those things speak Taiwanese to me, speak to how my mom raised me, how she teach, how she teaches me how to cook. Like you need to use this and that, and. , like, use ginger in your base, use mushroom use like, uh, and then always like heat up your pan and then like heat up all those, all of these like aromatic seasoning before you put in your other stir fry items. 
Mm-hmm. . And that's also, I guess like I didn't realize those are very, very, I guess, Taiwanese Chinese things to do until I. until I started learning, um, other cuisines. Mm-hmm. from other cultures, so, oh, that's interesting. Mm-hmm. And I don't bake , , I don't bake. It's just not, not part of how I grew up. It, it's a, it's a European thing. 
Mm-hmm. . Yeah. 
And. riding a scooter. , . Riding a scooter is also a very talentless thing. I, I had a, uh, I, I tried to, okay. I had my first experience riding a rebel. Mm-hmm. the other day. Um, I knew like exist. I just like never really feel I needed to do it. I could walk and just take train. My friend was like, oh, you should try this out. 
It's like, this is the way to go. It feels so nice and so convenient. And I, and um, at first I feel intimidated cuz like I see a lot of electric scooters that's, that's on the street in New York with like, just how crazy the traffic here is. Um, and I was like, maybe it's a little bit dangerous, but I'm gonna try it. 
And then I put on this helmet and I like, Like, kind of like step onto this, this footpath and then start writing Revel. And I was like, this is, this feels nice. Like I'm, it's, it's bringing back so much, so many memories from when I was in Taiwan as, uh, after we could start riding this scooter. It's not electric, it's like gas. 
Uh, it, they take gasoline scooters when, uh, starting. like when we were, when I was 18, I got my license and I started just writing everywhere and it became part of just how I go to places. Mm-hmm. , it's, it's, uh, it's, I own a scooter and then, um, I rode it a lot. Um, and that was like my, my men, uh, transportation method. 
Mm-hmm. . . Yeah. So that's also something that I feel I am definitely, it's a Taiwanese experience. Are you going  
Interviewer: to ride the rebels more?  
Interviewee: Um, they're expensive. . Mm-hmm. and they're not very available, uh, in, around my neighborhood are a lot here. Um, but definitely I can totally feel comfortable writing it if it's necessary. 
Mm. Hmm. Yeah. Like you're used to that feeling. Mm-hmm. and I don't feel, I actually don't feel I'm, I I'm not scared at all. I thought I would be scared cuz with so many right. Cars on the street, but no, like, I feel like, yeah, I, I've done this before. It feels familiar. Is it the, the moed one or is it the standing, the moped. 
The moped. The moped one. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Hmm. Do you have  
Interviewer: a lot of Taiwanese  
Interviewee: friends here? Not in New York. Mm-hmm. ? No. Mm. I had some back in LA and they're still there. Um, and I met them while, uh, going to school in. So they were all Taiwanese, but we met there. Mm-hmm. . Um, and I have some Chinese friends who I'm who from high school when we were in Taiwan and they are now in New York, but we, we didn't really spend much time after coming to the States cuz they, they just went to New York right away. 
They came to New York right away. Yeah. Yeah. Do you ever,  
Interviewer: afi, do you ever seek out communities of Taiwan? ? Or is that just, is  
Interviewee: that on a no, no. Um, I have, I have not seek a community, aside from just reaching out to my friend from high school and saying, oh, do you wanna go to this thing together? I see. But it's, we're all very busy, so it's not, it hasn't become regular enough that I feel like they are. 
I guess my chosen family or something, I keep using that word, but, um, they, I, we just don't meet frequent enough for me to feel like these few are my close friends here. Mm-hmm. . Yeah. What is your association  
Interviewer: with the word family? You mentioned it like you keep using it.  
Interviewee: Yes. Um, that's, yeah. Um, so I can, I guess I can give an example of why I use that word. 
I came, I came to the States as like the first and only person in my biological family. Um, I didn't have any relatives here. I still don't. Um, so, um, and then there was one time, okay, so like I basically had to rely on the friends I made. to like, kind of watch out for me, myself. For me, uh, when I came here, I, I already had a friend I met, I, I had before who's been the stage for a little bit longer than I am. 
Mm-hmm. , and she, uh, she like, like introduced me to like how to buy a car and how to open a bank account and like then me crash at their place for a little bit. Uh, things like that. Mm-hmm. . So for me that feels like something. other people would, would do with their relatives, with their older relative, their aunt and uncle if mm-hmm. 
they already have them in the States, but I did not. So I had to read young people who, nonbiological family that I have chosen here. Um, and then later on there was, there was one time, um, there was an earthquake in in California and that that happened. During the weekend, and then my partner and I, we were on our way to a camp campsite that was, that does not have, does not have any signal. 
And I was like, we, we had planned on, uh, two nights camping trip and the earthquake happened on the first day. Of course, we didn't know, we didn't feel anything. We happened in LA and then we were already out of la mm-hmm. . And then we didn't know what happened until, the last day we came back and then like my cell phone started getting signaled and it was just like completely blown out with all the messages, like e emails. 
My family sent me emails asking me, what is going on, , why can't we reach you? My, that's like my parents and my brother. And then it's very funny, they even reached out to like their friends who I, who I don't even know, who live in. To see that if they can try to find me. Wow. But we had no connection. There is no way. 
But my parents were just like, war sick for a day and a half. Mm-hmm. thinking something had happened to us because like, we literally, they lost their communication with me when the respect happened. Um, and oh, sorry. We were just camping, . And then, and then my parents got like a little bit angry and they're, they're like, you have to, uh, give me, Two of your friends contact info, and then every time if you, you guys are doing this, you tell them that you are going away for two days. 
And then so then I, we would feel a little bit more at ease and then, and then I had to like basically ask. Two of my friends who are Americans who are like much older than me and say, okay, can my parents add you on Facebook ? It's so stupid. Yeah. And it just feels so a little bit embarrassed, but um, but yeah, that's what happens. 
So, and these people are like very, very close to me. They're, uh, they're the people I would seek advice, uh, from. And one of them even became, guarantor when I was applying for a green car. Wow. He was like, yeah, it's okay. I, I'll be your, I'll be your witness in your wedding and I'll be your, uh, I can be your guarantor and just take all, all my, take my social security number, take all my bank account, whatever. 
Yeah. Huh. So,  
Interviewer: yeah. How has your relationship with your biological family changed since you moved here? Mm. Sounds like they get  
Interviewee: worried a little bit. , they definitely get worry a little bit more, but I feel like I also, I'm very impressed by just how, how much they're e they're willing to let me go. Mm-hmm. 
because they know this is gonna make me happy even though they really, really want me to be with them. Um, yeah. And I can still. Definitely, I feel like the relationship had gotten better because there's a huge distance. Like I can totally just say, I'm busy, I cannot talk. Sure. And so then, and I can be prepared like every time when we schedule a call, like I'm in a mindset that I'm ready to talk to you instead of we leaving with together or being on top of each other and then having to deal with a lot of stress of. 
living as an adult while taking care of your family. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Um, and, but I also feel a little bit guilty, um, of not being able to be on their side. Um, so like if somebody gets sick and somebody needs help with like, 
there's this leak on the ceiling that my dad had to like, spend some time to fix, and my brother is there. So he was able to help them, like with a lot of just like miscellaneous things in their life. And I'm just this, I, I feel I'm gone from their life because I don't have to take care of, I don't have to be responsible for that. 
Um, then when I go. visiting them. Um, my mom had like occupying my childhood bedroom to be her office and there's like no space for me, uh, to sleep . Um, this time when I, when I went back during the summer, um, the, like the first night when I was there, um, and my dad was like, uh, on the family vacation house and we, and the rest of my family is, was in the, um, the apartment in the city. 
Mm-hmm. . And I don't, I didn't have a bed set up for me. And I, and, and my, I, I asked, my mom said, where am I gonna sleep tonight? And she said, oh, I thought you could just sleep with me because dad is not here. Mm-hmm. . And I'm like, mm. And she said, is that, . Okay. It's okay if it's weird. I'll set, set out a bed for you in my office. 
In, in like your bedroom basically. Wow. And she like moved things around and set out a bed for me. And that was very interesting cuz like, oh, now it's weird for me to sleep with my mom when it wasn't at all like when I was little. I sleep with her all the time and it was completely fine. Right. Yeah. So now it's, now it's weird. 
Hmm. .  
Interviewer: Yeah. Has your, has your partner ever gone  
Interviewee: to Taiwan? Yes. Yes. Uh, he's been there twice. Uh, one before we were married and after mm-hmm. . Yeah. Yeah.  
Interviewer: And what was that like for, for you?  
Interviewee: Uh, it's very stressful because he doesn't speak a language and I'm, I'm just, I'm communicating for them all the time. Um, 
So it most feels that they don't have a relationship mm-hmm. on their own. It always has to go through me. Yeah. Mm-hmm. . So it's like, very stressful, but I also really, really appreciated him taking the time to meet with my family and appreciate my, my family there to take time to get to know him. Mm-hmm. 
and they, they all try so hard and I, and, but of course, uh, , I still wish there is no language barrier. Mm-hmm. . Yeah.  
Interviewer: Do you find yourself experiencing any language barrier using your Taiwanese list or using your major list?  
Interviewee: When I'm speaking Mandarin. Mm-hmm. , is there a language barrier?  
Interviewer: Okay. What's your experience with language now, I guess is the question? 
Interviewee: Mm. Yeah. I. . Huh, interesting. Okay. I feel like my brand there is like a limited capacity for language in my, in my brand, which is just unfortunate. Like the more fluent I am with English, the less I, I feel I have to sacrifice some Chinese words, some like Mandarin and Taiwanese words. Um, there's just no space to like add more 
Hmm. . But I don't think that's true. I think I'm just like, 
I don't know. Maybe, um, with age I'll feel a little bit different. Hmm. But right now, right now, I feel like I'm this person who can express my feeling very well in English, but not in Mandarin. Hmm. And I think that's problematic. Uh, I have nothing to lose with that cuz people who are talking to me about my feelings speak English. 
Mm-hmm. and I have no need to talk about my feelings with my parents or with like Mandarin speaker, I guess. Um, and then my, like, I feel like my language level, uh, in terms of like, I guess like professional vocabularies. in Mandarin. I stopped in like 20, 22 years old. I hadn't developed a mature language since then, so I was still, I'm, if I'm speaking Mandarin right now, I would feel like, I would feel like that. 
That doesn't mean it's actually true, but I will feel like I'm talking like a college kid. I'm talking like interesting, like yeah, huh. I'm using a lot of. 
childish  
Interviewer: or a lot of curse  
Interviewee: words to describe something that is a lot more nuanced than just that, you know, , I also hung with a lot of bros when I was younger. Mm-hmm. . Um, and that, that's just the kind of language we developed. Just it's very verifying. Um, Interviewee, the bro, . Yeah. I was very much a bro. I was very inappropriate and I was a little bit racist. 
Mm-hmm. , um, It's, I'm not, I'm not proud of it. Sure.  
Interviewer: Yeah. But it's a part of you somewhere like back there that, that was a part of your past. Mm-hmm. . Yeah. Yeah. Tell me more about, uh, you don't, you don't feel like you have to or want to speak about your feelings in Mandarin or to Mandarin  
Interviewee: speakers? I don't talk to my parents about my feelings a lot. 
Um, I guess whenever. ask about, um, how I am. It's like approaching it from a, from a, like a material standpoint. Just like how are you doing with money? How are you, uh, is, uh, how's the weather like there? Do you have enough to wear? Or like, um, just like how are you physically. . Um, we don't  
Interviewer: talk a lot about feelings. 
Interviewee: Um, my therapist speak English obviously cuz they're from here. Um, so, and I, and then my partner speaks English and these are the people I talk about my feelings too. Mm-hmm. and some of my friends also, most of my close friends speak English. Mm-hmm. . . So I'm, I'm just out of practice. Mm-hmm. . And I also feel like this, this is supposed to be a hassle free, a pain-free of, um, 
thing to do in terms of talking about your feelings. Right. And it's supposed to be a pain-free thing. Pain-free. Like, like, like meaning I shouldn't have to, I shouldn't have to make so much effort. , think about how I can describe this feeling in Mandarin. Mm-hmm. , if I already have a, a very convenient English word for it. 
Mm-hmm. . Yeah. Hmm. Also maybe reflect, I'm reflected 
by, by reflected by the way, that's not what I'm meant to say. 
a lot of time when I'm trying to like pinpoint why I feel the way I do is by looking at other people's experience, other people who they are experiencing around me and I. what they say about their feeling. And I'm like, yes, that's the word I should be using. Hmm. 
Does that make sense?  
Interviewer: Like your understandings of your feelings mm-hmm. are shaped by what you hear  
Interviewee: mm-hmm. and what you experience from other people. Yeah. Huh? Yeah. And then when most people around me are using English to, to, to talk about it, , I understand it in English. Hmm.  
Interviewer: Do you think you'll ever want to express that to either your parents or maybe your friends back in Taiwan or is that okay to like leave behind? 
Interviewee: I don't think, I feel like with my parents be tricky cuz that there is a another layer of like our relationship is. like this, so it, it would be so awkward if we talk about, I talk about my feeling with you mm-hmm. , but with my friends in Taiwan. Um, 
if there's a need, if there's a need, I visited a friend in Taiwan this past winter, and we actually met in LA and we were very close. Um, but unfortunately she moved back and I, I'm still sad about it. , but we met up and we spent a few days together and we talked about everything, and we talked about, I talked about my feeling a little bit, and then, and I, I found myself cheating when I couldn't find a, a Mandarin word to describe. 
I just used English because she could understand it perfectly. Mm-hmm. . So, yeah, that's, that's my answer. cheating is an interesting word to use. . Yeah. 
Yeah. And I guess like it's gonna be hard being in the English environment and trying to express my feeling in another language or trying to talk about really just everything. Um, but if I'm back to Taiwan where everybody else is speaking Manda. , then I can pick, pick that up very quickly. Mm-hmm. . Yeah. 
Interviewer: Also, I don't know, just, uh, I don't know if you have anything to do  
Interviewee: for this. Um, yeah. I mean, surely it's supposed to come and work on a project with me. Gotcha.  
Interviewer: Okay. Well, you feel free to wrap up whenever. Okay. But  
Interviewee: yeah, maybe a couple more questions if you have.  
Interviewer: Um, what does it feel like to go back to Taiwan  
Interviewee: for you? 
um, 
every year or every other year, I feel very, very differently. Really? Yeah. In the beginning, in the beginning of my time in the States, when I went back to visit, I really feel that I was going home. I really feel like, oh yes, this is familiar and this is, this is where I'm meant to be. , I feel confident again. 
And then solely becoming like, Ooh, um, how am uh, how am I gonna act? Why am I gonna wear so that people won't judge me? Mm-hmm. . Um, 
because I feel like, um, the way I talk, the way I. , um, it's like the American way now, and maybe people would think I'm an outsider. Hmm. Um, or look, just the way I present myself has become different. Yeah. Hmm. But coming back to Food ,  
Interviewer: I still think,  
Interviewee: oh yes, this is the way this, this is home. Yeah. What's  
Interviewer: your favorite food to, well, what's the first thing you get off the. 
Interviewee: my mom's cooking. Mm-hmm. , whatever she makes, I'll, I'll do it. Mm-hmm. . Yeah. Yeah, yeah. . . Uh,  
Interviewer: where do you consider home now? Like how do you conceive of home for yourself?  
Interviewee: Oh, God. Think about this question a lot actually. Um, 
I don't think there is like a physical location of home. I think it's 
is where my, my heart is. 
if I'm surrounded by people I care and people who care me and I guess have very little judgments towards me, um, that's when I feel that I'm home. Hmm. Yeah. 
Hmm.  
Interviewer: Do you feel, have you felt home? 
Hmm Uh, 
I don't know. 
I don't know. 
Okay. 
Yeah. Any last. Like, I think we can wrap up, but any last thoughts from you about being in the states, about being Taiwanese, about language or home or family or  
Interviewee: lying here on a beanbag? . . This beanbag is awesome. I should come here more. 
I think for a big chunk of my twenties I've been like trying to move forwards and like rushing to move forwards, like towards a goal and keep like learning a lot of things and advancing, improving myself and um, and I don't really stop and think. . I, I guess I don't have to stop, but I don't, I don't really look back and think about, I guess, who I am and then where do I come from and am I obligated to think about that? 
Think about it. Am I obligated to act a certain way to reflect who I am and where I'm from? Things like that. I just wanna taking as much as I can. So, um, having this like convers. It's like a really good reflection, introspection of what I, who I have been and what I've been doing. And I think maybe in three years after grad school and then, um, I, my life will become very different. 
You'll be like, I will be a working professional. Mm-hmm. and I will have a more, I'd say a more stable life, maybe more stable life with like, with like actually owning a house or something like that. I think I'll feel very different about what home is. Mm-hmm. . Yeah. When, when my priority becomes different. 
Yeah. I would love to talk to you then. Yeah. ? Yes. Yes, please, please. .  
Interviewer: Oh, oh, okay. Thanks for talking. Of course. This is  
Interviewee: great. This is  
Interviewer: great. Um, I, I honestly, like, I don't know what I'm gonna do with these interviews come. , I've been thinking as I've been doing, I'm like, oh man. I just, it makes me feel a lot closer to the people around me and to like really spend the time to get to know, like, yeah, I feel like we do it over drinks sometimes, or like, but you don't really ever sit down and be like, okay,  
Interviewee: let's talk and dive deeper into just one topic. 
Yeah.  
Interviewer: Yeah. And I, I was like, this is so good. I wanna do this all the time. It's really good.  
Interviewee: It's like  
Interviewer: three.