 
Interviewer: We're gonna record this. I'm gonna sit this here. I wanna ask you, what do you consider to be your cultural heritage?  
Interviewee1: Interviewee2 , do you wanna start? No.  
Interviewer: Okay.  
Can you define a bit about cultural heritage?  
Fantastic question.  
I think that is a question that I'm opening up to you all too.  
Okay.  
I'll say for me personally, I think of Taiwanese, Chinese. 
That's the heritages of my parents. I align a little bit more with Taiwanese because that's where my extended family is from, but maybe that means to you something different. 
Interviewee1: Speak louder, . Okay, so Sowan, you want me to start? Yeah. Okay. So my parents are both from India. Mm-hmm. , there is a, my dad is from Goa, which is one state in India, and my mom is from Mangalore, which is another state in India. But they both grew up in this city called Bombay, which is like the New York of India. 
So my heritage is Indian, but more specifically, I align with the go inside of things because again, that's where my extended family is and that's where I've traveled the most in India. I've gone there a lot. And the other kind of deeper ring of that is we, whenever we go to Goa, we go to. The kind of area that my grandparents live at, which is a very, very predominantly Muslim area. 
Hmm. So there's my Indian heritage and then there's the Muslim heritage, which are both of interlinked in Goa. I think that that has really impacted me to this day, but I think it, Muslims and boys are a very big thing. So like my dad would take me to the mosque every Friday. and I think that sticks with me still. 
And so like for example, now even on Fridays, I do feel a little bad for not going to the mosque even though, you know, I'm not terribly religious. And then also, you know, like, I guess this is more religious, but I think it just like factors in to. to all of this, like Indian Muslim traditions are maybe slightly different from regular Muslim traditions. 
Mm-hmm. . And so during Muslim holidays you'll eat Indian specific food, Indian specific food on those holidays. In terms of like, you know, other cultural things like, okay, I'm Indian, Muslim, but I don't do holy or, or devali like some other Indians do. Like they, it's a very special thing for them and it's either religious or if I was. 
the same person. But in India, I would celebrate those. But because I'm here, I don't. Hmm. But I celebrate the Indian Muslim holidays here. Did you  
Interviewer: celebrate those, like, like holy, those holidays when you were in India, or do you, like, would he go  
Interviewee1: back? Do you celebrate them there? If, if it was happening, if it was overlapping while I was there, then yes I would. 
But in Dubai it was also more relevant because I had more friends that were Indian. Friend religious background, which meant that I would go to those events. Mm-hmm. . Is that kind of what you meant? Yeah. Like, I, I, is that what you were asking  
Interviewer: about? Yeah. It's definitely like knowing what, what you consider yourself as mm-hmm. 
like how do you mm-hmm. . Celebrate that, or what things are important to you. Mm-hmm. It is kind of where we're getting at at first. But I kinda wanna let this conversation go where it goes. Yeah. This is the first interview conversation. Mm-hmm. .  
Interviewee1: Where are the, we're the, we're the first,  
you're the  
Interviewer: first You're special. 
Mm-hmm. . When did you, when did you move or like make a more permanent move here?  
Interviewee1: When I was 18. When I was 18. Moving here initially, I kind of like. I didn't do a lot of Muslim stuff. Mm-hmm. , I didn't go to that many like Indian events. And then once I was more settled, I felt more comfortable to like, go to these events. 
For example, like Eid, a very big Muslim holiday. I was like, oh man. Like, I miss not, I miss being around people for this holiday. I'm gonna go and actually do things and find the community here that represents that heritage of me. Mm-hmm. . And then when you do that, you're like, oh shit. Like you're from Dubai and like you're from, you're from this place and you are also an Indian Muslim, and like, you bond a little bit over that stuff. 
Hmm. But, and so for me, it started off, I was pretty like, you know, I, I didn't. Much stuff related to my heritage. But then as time went on I was like, no, I missed that. And so I go in cycles sometimes I'll be very like, very religious and I'll be very like, oh man, I want to celebrate this thing cuz it's like time and like, you know, I mean you guys saw like last Ramadan, I, I get. 
I get much more into like a religious state versus now from being a complete degen every night. What do you mean degen? I don't know. Fucking going out, drinking a bunch, not praying. But I think what hap But I think it's a whole cycle thing. And so like I'll get back to that stage at some point. Hmm. 
I said also is a big thing when my parents are in town, it's like a re it's like a re-upping. All those things. So like when, whenever my dad's in town, he's like, oh yeah, let's go to the mosque. You know? Are both your parents fairly religious? Not my mom. My mom is negative or not negative. . . It's not like she's like, don't believe in God. 
Yeah, my dad is, but like, he breaks the rules, but he's, but he prays consistently and always like, Hey, you should gore. But I think that, oh, oh, another point that I just thought of that's like kind of related is like, So I would go to India every summer growing up. Mm-hmm. , I would go there, stay with my cousins, hang out with them, and then my sister did not. 
And so I think me and my sister are very disconnected in that way. Meaning like she doesn't have the same kind of cultural connection as I guess I do. Hmm. Like I feel a little bit more connected. I can speak a little bit more of the language. She has No, she has no idea how to speak, how to understand. I can. 
Speak, but I sound like a four year old. I can understand, but like only because I understand a couple words and I can like context fluid together. So I think that's a big thing was like my exposure to there and then my continuing want to do it over here to try and keep those roots still active, you know? 
Yeah. Yeah, it was just a random thought idea. Do you speak a language with your parents? Uhuh, my parent didn't want me and my sister to, I don't know why they're For this, they, they spoke to me and my sister exclusively in English cuz they didn't want us to like, either not learn English correctly or speak with an accent or something. 
And so they only spoke to us in English. And I still get into fights with my dad to this day about it cuz he's like, you didn't talk to your grandma enough? And I was like, my grandma couldn't speak English. Like she could only say the same, like six things. And like, I didn't understand Hindi, so she'd be like, like, She'd be like, you know, hi, how are you doing? 
And I'd be like, I'm good. Cuz that's the only thing I could say. I couldn't be like, oh yeah. I'm like, you know, I'm doing all this stuff. And she's like, have you eaten yet? And I'd be like, no. And then she'd be like, all right. And that's it. That, that was the extent of our conversation. Yeah. And so not learning the language is like the biggest, one of the biggest regrets. 
That my par that, that I think my parents also feel to this day. Mm. How about not. Or my sister, but for me it's a little easier to understand for my sister, not at all. And so I think she feels a little less connected in that way. But I for sure when I have kids, we'll make sure that they speak Hindi or the, like a hundred percent. 
Which, which  
Interviewer: do you consider to be closer to? Like what you, what align with Hindi?  
Interviewee1: Or it is basically the same thing. It's like, like Spanish, like the king Spanish, or like, not the king Spanish. Okay. You know, it's like one of them is written in Arabic script and the other is written in like traditional, like in the but you speak it the same. 
Gotcha. Okay. So like either one of those I want to make for sh fucking short that they speak it, because then they're not like I, the moment you lose the language, I feel like that's when you start disconnecting like the. A little too afraid to be plugged back in, you know? Yeah. Language is really hard. 
It's so hard. And now my adult brain, it's like completely developed and there's not even that much of it. It's like pretty puny. So can you imagine trying to learn a language now at the age of 26? I can't imagine the adult brain has stopped developing. If anything you're drinking. My roommate she takes Chinese classes. 
Mm-hmm. , like every couple, every couple of days. Like she wakes up at 8:00 AM and like practices. Mm. Which like props to her. And wan you said she didn't have an accent. But she did have an accent.  
Interviewer: The Chinese accent is always different to me. Oh really?  
Interviewee1: Hmm.  
Interviewer: So even if she has one, I don't, I don't. 
Up. It's like different from Chinese  
Interviewee1: people. Oh, I see, I see, I see. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. That's all I got. . There's plenty more. But I've been, I've been speaking for a while.  
Interviewer: Yeah. I wanna hear a little from you. Fun like, yeah. Do you have very different experience than I Like, I think all three of us have very different experience with moving away from home or moving away from our mm-hmm. greater home. 
Interviewee2: I think cultural heritage. I recognize myself as Taiwanese . Mm-hmm. , I, I used to say Taiwanese, Chinese, but then I realized this is like a really confusing term. Hmm. So now it's like Taiwanese . 
Interviewer: What what catches you as using right? Like Chinese?  
Interviewee2: Yeah. Because like I stopped saying I speak Chinese instead of Mandarin. 
Mm. , we talk in different terms and I don't feel like we're really speaking the same exact language. But I grew up in a very Western family actually, like all my parents, my mom cooks a lot of Western food and I go to only English kindergartens. So I think that's like very different from the rest of the. 
In Taiwan. So even now when I moved to America, I don't feel like there's a gap between the culture and the eating style and everything, if any way, I just feel like, oh, it's way more easier here than in parent, than in Taiwan.  
Interviewer: What, what do you mean by easier? 
Interviewee2: Like the spices we use, it's more accessible here. 
Or the vegetables we, I used to eat is like more common here. Huh. But at the same time, I rely heavily on Chinese and Mandarin too. Mm-hmm. , what did you say? Oh, and every summer, like I spend my summers usually abroad too. So I remember when I was a kid, when my friends were saying like, which part of Taiwan have you been to? 
Or let's say none. Because like whenever we get to travel, it would never be like on the island. It would always be like going outside.  
Interviewer: Where did you travel to instead?  
Interviewee2: Mostly America, because my uncle lives here, so we come visit him almost every summer. And I spend two summers in England. Oh. Or sometimes. 
After I grew a bit older, I went to Scandinavian for three summers, I think. Like just doing different stuff. Mm-hmm. , what else? Oh, but Taiwan itself is like a country that might sound bad, but like to put it most directly is like without dignity, because I think the history makes us really confused about our own identity. 
Like we were always colonized by other country from the sixteenth c entry, it was the Netherlands and the, and Portuguese, like have and span, span Spanish people. Mm-hmm. and then later it was Japanese and then it was the, the situation we have right now. So we are like very closely identify ourselves to Japanese. I think, like we love Japan and I think every family, if they ever been abroad, like they, they have been to Japan like twice or three times. So the culture is very Japanese dominated and also very Western culture dominated. Taiwan itself, like everything in general, is just very mellow and it's always mixed from other country stuff.  Like a mix from other countries and a touch of the, of the Taiwanese things maybe . 
So I, I have a hard time having patriotism. Mm-hmm. . Yeah. Like, I don't know, I don't know how people feel that much of love to their own country cuz I, I don't really feel that. And on national days we usually just do nothing and we don't celebrate it. Even like all kinds of holidays, we don't really celebrate it as the tradition itself, but more like, oh, a day off, let's do something. 
Mm-hmm. I think it's like a really tricky question for me, but sometimes I get really clear when I know that I don't want to be recognized as other country. Like if someone says, oh, are you Chinese? I would get like super defensive. Or if someone says, I'm Japanese also, cuz the older generation hates Japan and the newer generation hates China. 
So either way you don't want to be identifi. Japanese or Chinese? How do your parents feel about the two groups? My dad hates Japan, so I grew up really hating Japan. But then later all my friends loved Japan, so I was like, wait, what? Mm-hmm. . So now I'm like more on the younger generation side, like I do recognize Japanese did something really bad. 
Street. Mm-hmm. , but also Chinese is also doing something really bad right now, so it's like, but my parents likes China. They have like friendly attitudes towards them really? Because they're, their parents are both from China. Mm-hmm. . So we're technically Chinese. Hong, yeah. Did your parents come over with the cultural revolution? 
Their migration? My grandparents did. . But my parents both grew up in Taiwan. 
Interviewee1: I have like a, like my parents, like, I think my dad had some bad experiences with Pakistanis. Yeah. And so he was like, he did not like Pakistanis at all. And so that just made me think of them. Yeah. And so I grew up, like, I was like in Pakistanis, they're like that. But then all of. Friends are Pakistanis. I like Pakistanis. 
Mm-hmm. . Because the thing is though, like there, there weren't too many Indian Muslims around me, but Pakistanis, most of them are Muslim. And the, and the culture and the heritage are like so similar that I was like, this dude is my best friend because we share a lot of the same background. Yeah. And. 
It's like, I think it's a similar situation where like the, the older generation is like, fuck Pakistan. Like they're bad. And like some nationalists now even still have that same mindset mm-hmm. . But then like the, the newer generation are like, it's fine. Yeah. Like, we like them. Yeah. You know, they're are, they're okay. 
It's, it's all the same. It was just someone drew a fucking line. I know. Have you heard that thing about how like, instead of saying like what country you're from, Like what large body of water is near you and or then that's the area you're  
Interviewer: from. Interesting. So I'm from Pacific Ocean,  
Interviewee1: like shore or That's very big. 
Or, but something even more close to you, like is there a big river or something that's near you or something like that, that was like  
Interviewer: navigating instead of, instead of countries as these like puzzle pieced  
Interviewee1: things, it's like, no, here's the, here's this river that us, that is like mean, like I, I, I don't know any rivers. 
Like, oh man. Yeah. I'm from the Nile, you know, like the Nile River.  
Interviewer: I was just reading a book about anthropology Yeah. And ethnography. Mm. And it was just saying like, like Morocco and Indonesia, we are often referring those two country as their sovereign tea name, which is Indonesia. Morocco. Mm-hmm. 
But those two countries actually have a way bigger culture body. Shouldn't be referred just as this term and like using this term just makes, what would  
Interviewee1: you say instead for, for Morocco, for example, did it say  
Interviewer: like, you can talk, you can call them in their culture. Like maybe Taiwanese hand is a way. Okay. 
Instead of like Taiwan. Cuz there's like all kinds of different groups of people in it. But overall we're like governed by this government called Taiwan, but underneath that doesn't mean anything to this body of people. Mm. You should refer it more like, like geo. Would be a way, or like ethnographically would be a way. 
Oh, so many big words, but Yeah.  
Interviewee1: Yeah. What's like an ethnographic way?  
Interviewer: It, he mentioned some examples, but I don't remember. Mm-hmm. I'd love to read that book. That sounds really interesting. Yeah. The, the author is awesome. I'll, I'll send it to you. Oh my God,  
Interviewee1: right?  
Interviewer: Yeah. Huh. You mentioned earlier, like, Reaching a lot for like Mandarin and like a, as a thing to lean on here. 
Yeah. What did you mean by that? I guess it's like, although all my like grew up experience is very westernized, but the language itself is just unchangeable and like, even if you have no cultural background on anything, but only that language, it means like a lot. Like, even now, I guess my English is okay, but I, I still feel very, like, incomplete in this language. 
That's, I think that's what like, does, like perhaps Mandarin feels more like you or more like I can find more terms to express myself in that language 
sometimes. Sometimes there's just no words in. like that is like equal, say  
Interviewee1: that. Say the real word  
Interviewer: then equals to the, equals to  
Interviewee1: the, say that word. Say whatever The word you think describes the best is. Hmm. She, she, she can fucking find, find someone to get like a translation. Know?  
Interviewer: Yeah. 
It would be really interesting to hear, say it, to hear you describe this experience in Mandarin versus in English. Yeah,  
Interviewee1: that's true. Oh, yeah. I read a thing about that too. That was like when people explain stuff or tell a story or do something in their, oh no, that was fucking Gabby Branco's, Gabby drug was thesis. 
Yeah. Yeah. Oh, that, that's what it was. Yeah. Totally forgot about that.  
Interviewer: If you want like a another language interview, I can do it with you another time, but right now I need to go back to the first. Yeah, we should all, let's  
Interviewee1: go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Go. Thanks for talking. How long  
Interviewer: was that? 15 minutes, I think. 
More. Ooh, 20 minutes. 20 minutes. Ooh.